The coronavirus pandemic is wreaking havoc on the global sporting calendar. EWN has compiled a list of the key developments affecting the sporting fraternity. JOHANNESBURG - The coronavirus pandemic has wreaked havoc on the global sporting calendar. Here are some of the major events that been affected so far. FOOTBALL: The Premier League announced they will suspend all games until 3 April. The DFL executive committee has proposed a suspension of Bundesliga and second division games from 17 March until 2 April. This weekend's games behind closed doors will go ahead as planned. French football authorities have confirmed that Ligue 1 and Ligue 2 have been suspended until further notice UEFA has decided to postpone club competition matches scheduled for the week of 16 to 20 March. This includes the remaining Champions League Round of 16 second leg matches and all Europa League Round of 16 second leg matches. The quarterfinal draws have also been postponed. Everton's first-team have become the latest Premier League squad to go into self-isolation after a player reported symptoms consistent with coronavirus The 14 March game between Arsenal and Brighton has been postponed after Arsenal manager Mikel Arteta tested positive. Chelsea’s Callum Hudson-Odoi also tested positive but has recovered. Man City defender Benjamin Mendy and 3 of Leicester’s first team players are in self-isolation. Real Madrid and Juventus squads are in quarantine, forcing Champions League games meant to be played between 16 to 20 March with Man City and Lyon respectively to be postponed. Chelsea's Champions League last-16 second leg at Bayern Munich on 18 March will be played behind closed doors. Man United’s Europa League game against LASK on 12 March was played in front of just 500 fans. The Europa League games between Sevilla and Roma as well as Inter and Getafe scheduled for 12 March were both postponed. Juventus and Italy defender Daniele Rugani tested positive. La Liga’s top two divisions have been suspended for at least 2 weeks. Conmebol World Cup qualifiers due to take place between 23 and 31 March have been postponed. The French League Cup final between PSG and Lyon on 4 April has been postponed. Spanish Cup final between Athletic Bilbao and Real Sociedad in Seville on 18 April has been postponed. The World Football Summit that was scheduled to take place at the Durban ICC from 17 to 18 March has been postponed. Major League Soccer (MLS) has suspended its season for 30 days while it reevaluates the impact of the coronavirus. MOTORSPORT: The Australian Formula One Grand Prix, the first stop on the calendar, has been cancelled. The Chinese Grand Prix has been postponed, while both the Bahrain and Vietnam races have also been postponed. The F1 season is expected to start at the end of May. The Formula E championship has suspended its season. The first four races of the MotoGP season in Qatar, the USA, Argentina and Spain have all been cancelled. The final race of the season in Valencia, Spain, has been pushed back to 27-29 November because of the latest changes. RUGBY: The PRO14 season has been suspended. The 15 March) Super Rugby game between Highlanders and Jaguares will be played behind closed doors in Buenos Aires. The Six Nations match between France and Ireland which was scheduled to conclude the 2020 Championship in the Stade de France on 14 March has been postponed. Fans will be locked out of all Super Rugby games in Australia after this weekend's matches (14-15 March). The government moved to halt events of more than 500 people to counter the threat of coronavirus. This weekend's games will go ahead as normal with the ban taking effect on Monday (16 March). CRICKET: The remaining two ODIs between South Africa, scheduled for Sunday (15 March) and Wednesday (18 March) have been suspended. England's tour of Sri Lanka has been called off due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The start of the IPL season has been delayed from 29 March to 15 April. Australian bowler Kane Richardson is in quarantine after showing symptoms and is being tested. His test has since comeback negative. Australia will play their three upcoming one-day internationals against New Zealand behind closed doors The Australian women’s cricket team have suspended their tour to South Africa. The IPL (Indian Premier League) looks likely to be played behind closed doors. GOLF: The Masters have been postponed to an unspecified later date. The tournament was set to take place between 9 and 12 April. The Players Championship was cancelled after the first round as well as all PGA and LPGA events until mid-April. All PGA Tour events between now and the Masters, starting on 9 April, have been cancelled. TENNIS: No professional tennis tournaments will be played anywhere in the world until at least 20 April. The ATP Tour has postponed all play for six weeks All tournaments on the men's ATP Tour and ATP Challenger Tour have been cancelled until 27 April. No WTA tournaments will be staged for at least five weeks. AMERICA: The National Basketball Association (NBA) announced it would suspend its season after a player for the Utah Jazz tested positive. The National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) cancelled March Madness, (the men's Division I basketball tournament and the biggest annual event in college basketball) as well as other winter and spring NCAA championships. Major League Baseball (MLB) cancelled its remaining spring training schedule and delayed the start of the season by at least two weeks. The National Hockey League (NHL) suspended the season effective immediately. CYCLING: The Giro d'Italia, scheduled to start on 9 May, has been postponed. 11 of the next 17 professional events have been cancelled. OLYPMICS:  This list was last updated at 4pm local time on 13 March 2020.