The president said the decision was taken by the governing party’s extended national working committee which met on Monday. JOHANNESBURG – President Cyril Ramaphosa  on Monday announced that all upcoming conferences of the African National Congress (ANC), including the ANC Youth League (ANCYL) elective conference and national general council (NGC), would be postponed until further notice. Addressing the media in Pretoria, Ramaphosa said the decision was taken at the governing party’s extended national working committee (NWC), which met on Monday to discuss government’s response to the spread of the coronavirus (COVID-19) in the country. “All the conferences, including the NGC is also postponed until further notice. Provincial conference, regional conferences, conferences of the Youth League… they’re all postponed until further notice,” Ramaphosa said. The ANCYL conference was due to take place in May at the University of the Free State. The president also said he would meet with all political parties in Cape Town soon to discuss how they should deal with COVID-19 from a “non-political partisan point of view”. As of Monday, South Africa had 62 cases of the coronavirus.   At the same time, Ramaphosa said the ANC was committed to fighting the spread of the virus. He said the party agreed with government’s current plans to ensure the virus was successfully contained. Ramaphosa said the travel ban imposed by government would have negative effects on the country’s economy, saying it was necessary to deal with the spread of COVID-19. “I would like all of us as South Africans to realise that we are going through a period which we’ve never gone through before since our own democracy. This is going to be a testing period for all of us and it’s going to have a negative impact on our economy,” he said. Ramaphosa said government was working on a plan to deal with taxi ranks and bus stations. “This is an area where we could face enormous challenges and the national command council is going to be looking very closely at how we address the challenge that is bound to come when the outbreak begins to go to a number of other places.” To track the latest developments around the coronavirus both in South Africa and abroad, click on this live status report from Strategix.