Poorer communities are likely to bear the brunt of the dire health and socio-economic consequences as COVID-19 spreads. JOHANNESBURG - Crowding, no clean running water and poor sanitation. These are the conditions many poor South Africans live and the perfect atmosphere for the spread of coronavirus. Gauteng is now officially the province with the highest number of confirmed coronavirus cases in South Africa at 109 as of 20 March. The Gauteng City-Region Observatory (GCRO) published two maps. The first illustrates the areas in the province most vulnerable to the spread of the virus. The second illustrates an index of risk factors that will likely increase health and socio-economic vulnerability during an outbreak or broader shutdown. Specifically, the maps explore two key themes: (1) the multiple risk factors to maintaining basic preventative hygiene and social distancing; and (2) the multiple risk factors in the context of major shutdowns and potential outbreaks. "It is apparent from experiences in other countries that basic hygiene and social distancing are key to limiting the spread of the pandemic. However, maintaining basic preventative hygiene and social distancing is not equally feasible for all people in all communities," GCRO said. "Poorer communities are likely to bear the brunt of the dire health and socio-economic consequences as COVID-19 spreads. In addition, with various shutdown measures already in place, they will be the most vulnerable to these dramatic changes in the patterns of social functioning, and the downturn in economic activity that will inevitably result." The following have been identified as major risk factors in crowded areas: See both maps below.     "Some of the key insights from these maps are that challenges to maintaining social distance and preventative hygiene are spatially clustered but that the limited ability to cope with health and social shocks is more widespread, but also significantly influenced by the challenges to maintaining social distance and preventative hygiene," GCRO said.