Muller Uys has more than proven his worth at junior level as the No.8 led the Blue Bulls Under-21 to the SA Rugby U21 Championship final last year CAPE TOWN - Loose-forward Muller Uys and Ian Groenewald will both make their Super Rugby debuts when the Bulls host the Highlanders at Loftus Versfeld on Saturday. Uys has more than proven his worth at junior level as the No.8 led the Blue Bulls Under-21 to the SA Rugby U21 Championship final last year. Groenewald has seen a fair bit of rugby, with his journey starting with Maties while representing Western Province and Griquas domestically. Their inclusion at no.8 and lock respectively is two of three changes for the Bulls, with Ruan Nortje slotting in as Groenewald's lock partner. Bulls head coach, Pote Human, made one change to the backs as Manie Libbok gets his first start of the season, with Morné Steyn shifting to the bench. The other change to the bench allows Ryno Pieterse to potentially add to his caps and is expected to provide serious power if he takes the field. "We need to do things a little differently this week, we are in Round 6 and are yet to win. Tough choices had to be made and the players and I understand what needs to be done and accept the accountability thereof. There is no doubt that we have our backs against the wall and will need to deal with that pressure to restore the pride and belief of the Loftus faithful," said Human. "Muller and Ian have been working hard so it is great to see them being rewarded. They are both intelligent rugby players who leave nothing on the field. Congratulations to both." Bulls: 15. Warrick Gelant, 14. Cornal Hendricks, 13. Nafi Tuitavake, 12. Johnny Kotze, 11. Rosko Specman, 10. Manie Libbok, 9. Embrose Papier, 8. Muller Uys, 7. Josh Strauss, 6. Marco van Staden, 5. Ruan Nortje, 4. Ian Groenewald, 3. Trevor Nyakane (c), 2. Jaco Visagie, 1. Lizo Gqoboka. Replacements: 16. Corniel Els, 17. Gerhard Steenekamp, 18. Wiehahn Herbst, 19. Ryno Pieterse, 20. Ruan Steenkamp, 21. Ivan van Zyl, 22. Morné Steyn, 23. Divan Rossouw.