Two Oceans Marathon NPC had an emergency meeting over the weekend where they unanimously decided that all Two Oceans Marathon events scheduled for 8-11 April 2020 would be cancelled amid the COVID-19 pandemic. CAPE TOWN - Following the unprecedented decision by the Two Oceans Marathon NPC to cancel 2020 Marathon, race director Debra Barnes has addressed the most pressing concerns of the running community who have been impacted by the cancellation. Two Oceans Marathon NPC had an emergency meeting over the weekend where they unanimously decided that all Two Oceans Marathon events scheduled for 8-11 April 2020 would be cancelled amid the COVID-19 pandemic. "We do not yet know the full effect the COVID-19 pandemic will have on South Africa and for how long restrictions will be enforced. Internationally, the consensus among public health experts is that the COVID-19 threat will remain a reality for months to come and that a second wave of the illness due to seasonal changes cannot be ruled out," said Barnes. "Our biggest priority remains the well-being of our runners; protection of all staff, suppliers and their staff, and the broader community. Given the number of events on the calendar in the latter half of the year, we simply cannot guarantee the availability of our various major service providers, or that the venue and infrastructures will be available for the TOM 2020 Expo and the finish for a postponed event." "Amid this uncertainty, and as events were unfolding, the TOM NPC Board took the difficult decision to cancel the 51st Two Oceans Marathon scheduled for 11 April 2020." Barnes outlined that there won't be refunds for the runners. "The terms and conditions relating to Two Oceans Marathon Entries and Fees confirm that no refunds will be given in the event of a cancellation. This is purely to safeguard the financial security of the event based on the potential losses which arise from a cancellation," she said. "We are busy quantifying the financial implications of the need to cancel the Two Oceans Marathon 2020. At the time of the decision to cancel, most major expenditure items including T-shirts, medals and goodie bags were already in the production phase. Contracts have been signed, orders have been placed, deposits have been paid and work was in progress. In addition, there are many expenses which have already been paid and cannot be recovered." Are runners getting T-shirts? The TOM2020 Ultra Marathon, Half Marathon and Trail Run T-shirts and the TOM 2020 Commemorative Buffs are already in production and the TOM NPC can, therefore, confirm the following: The Two Oceans Marathon office is currently working on the logistics of how the T-shirts and books purchased, as well as complimentary buffs will be handed to runners. This will be confirmed at a later date. What about parking and medal engraving? "All payments for medal engraving and parking for TOM2020 will be reimbursed." What about goodie bags and medals? "Runners will not be receiving goodie bags and medals. These items will be used for 2021 and this will help offset some of the financial loss which we are facing due to the cancellation of the event." Will the 2020 entries be deferred to 2021? "Due to the fact that our route and numbers for each event are dependent on various factors we are considering, but cannot at this time guarantee, that 2020 entrants will be assured of an entry in 2021. Regrettably, entry fees cannot be deferred to 2021."