South Africa have won all three of their games at the tournament so far, beating England in their opening match of the tournament before a record-breaking victory against tournament debutants Thailand gave them two wins from two. JOHANNESBURG - Proteas Women coach Hilton Moreeng has on Monday attributed his team’s progression to the semifinals of the Women’s T20 World Cup to the experience of the players in the current squad. South Africa have won all three of their games at the tournament so far, beating England in their opening match of the tournament before a record-breaking victory against tournament debutants Thailand gave them two wins from two. Their place in the last four was secured with a 17-run win against Pakistan. In each of those matches, there has been a match-winner for the Proteas women. In the first game, it was Mignon du Preez, who hit boundaries off the final two deliveries to get over the line against England. Lizelle Lee was the star of the show against Thailand, scoring her maiden T20 century. Once again, it was a batter that took centre stage against Pakistan as Laura Wolvaardt smashed a 36 ball 50 to guide South Africa over the line. “We have a lot of batters that are dynamic but the most important is we have enough stock now as far as batters are concerned that can clear boundaries, which is very important to us. So we know that for us we want to keep up with the top three we need just one or two things we have to change. So that’s why the batting order is the way it is because those players are suited for the role that is going to be required on the day,” Moreeng said. He added that the fact that this group has been together for an extended period of time and that there are experienced heads in the change room has made the difference. “I think most of these players have been there, they've played a lot of cricket against these teams, and the fact that most of them have been part of the Big Bash also gives them a bit of confidence. The other thing is that we came from a very good tour from New Zealand on our way here, so that also gave them the confidence to be able to compete against one of the top teams in the world, especially in this format. Yes, we didn't win the series, as far as the T20s are concerned, but we had a very successful ODI series. So from that, I think momentum and then confidence just built from there and then it was good to see how everybody applied themselves on the day,” he said. South Africa’s final group game is against the West Indies on Tuesday and Moreeng is expecting a tough challenge. “We have to take it [the momentum] into the West Indies game and see how things go. I think at the end of the day, each and every player goes onto the field to win every game. So for us, we're going to take it one day at a time and then see what happens on the day. We know West Indies is also a dangerous side; it’s a side that also has a couple of match-winners, so it's not for us to think ahead of ourselves. It's just to make sure that when the day comes, every player is ready to play,” he said.