'I’m not sure if they’re all brilliant or mad - probably a bit of both,' said the elegant left-hander who scored over 8,000 runs in a glittering 117-Test career. CAPE TOWN - Former England captain David Gower offered his unconditional support to every player set to participate in the Over-50s World Cup in and around Cape Town from March 11-24. Almost. “I’m not sure if they’re all brilliant or mad - probably a bit of both,” said the elegant left-hander who scored over 8,000 runs in a glittering 117-Test career. “Personally, it would be a futile activity for me in which the ghosts of cricket past would come back to haunt me, but I do seriously admire the guys who want to get out there again because they love playing the game. They still want to do their best, and win, which is a healthy attitude to have – but I’m not sure I could have done it. “I played a couple of charity games after I retired but the point of no return came when I played in a very good match in Oxfordshire comprising oldies like me – most better than me – with some of the greats of the game like Clive Lloyd, Sunil Gavaskar and Wasim Akram. The numbers were made up by a dozen-or-so multi-millionaires who paid a fortune to play with their heroes,” said Gower, now 62-years-old. “I was given out by a former Archbishop of Canterbury, caught behind off the bowling of Mike Procter. I missed it by about a foot but I realised, then and there, that if the Archbishop was giving me out for no apparent reason then my days at the crease were over. I quite liked playing well but I really don’t like playing badly.” The tournament, sponsored by Evergreen Lifestyle Retirement Villages, features 12 teams from around the cricket playing world with each playing eight 45-over games within the space of just 13 days before the final, at Newlands, on March 24. It is a schedule, Gower said, “which makes my eyes water just thinking about it.” “Anything active makes sense as you reach 50 and there’s nothing wrong with keeping the competitive juices flowing, but I need to aim for challenges which are doable, like tennis or aerobic chess. I’m kidding, I don’t do that. “But for those over 50 who can still play our beautiful game, and still have the desire to see if they can reclaim some of the glory days, I have nothing but praise. And I would certainly have enjoyed watching the games had my time in Cape Town not had to come to an end before then,” said Gower who was visiting the city on a Lord’s Taverners fund-raising trip for local children.