Dressed in full military gear, commander in chief President Cyril Ramaphosa said this was one of the country’s toughest battles yet. JOHANNESBURG - President Cyril Ramaphosa said the army’s deployment to assist in the fight against COVID-19 was unprecedented and necessary. He addressed soldiers at the Doornkop army base on Thursday night ahead of the national lockdwon. WATCH: ‘Mission Save Lives’ - Ramaphosa deploys soldiers for lockdown  Dressed in full military gear, commander in chief President Ramaphosa said this was one of the country’s toughest battles yet. “As you begin this most important mission in the history of our country, our country has never been through a period like this.” With the army being on the streets on Friday morning, he said he had faith they would be able to maintain law and order. “To go out and wage war against an invincible enemy, the coronavirus.” The army is being deployed as an essential service to ensure the lockdown is implemented. HOW WILL THE LOCKDOWN AFFECT MY LIFE? Starting today, you have to stay home You can leave buy groceries or medicine, or to go to your doctor If you are stopped and asked why you are out, you need to explain Shop at the shop closest to you, if you don’t find what you need there, go to the next nearest shop You will only be able to buy foodstuffs and other items listed as essential – so you won’t be able to buy clothes or homeware at your local Woolies superstore Government will keep supply lines open, grocery shops will remain open – government is working along with retailers and food and essential goods producers to ensure supplies reach the shops The Police minister was very clear - you won’t be able to buy booze during the lockdown – at all. Anywhere. You are not even allowed to move a six pack to your neighbour’s No jogging, no dog walking, no exercise, no leaving your home at all unless you are going to the shops for essentials, to the doctor, or to the pharmacy If you have an elderly or vulnerable relative you can take them food or take them to the doctor (that’s included in the regulations), but if you are stopped and asked why you are out, you will need to explain Minister Lindiwe Zulu is requesting that children remain with the primary custody holder, and that they only be moved under exceptional circumstances – but they have yet to define what constitutes an exceptional circumstance. Basically, no children should be moved for the duration of the lockdown If you rely on public transport or metered taxis and e-hailing services to get you to the shops or the doctor, they will only be available and allowed to transport people and essential services workers between 5am to 9am and from 4pm to 8pm They will have to be comprehensively sanitized after every trip – only one passenger in a four-person car; only 3 passengers in an 8 person vehicle Uber says there will be no surge pricing during the lockdown. It’s clarified ubers can only be used for to obtain an essential good or service (grocery/medicine shopping) or for rendering an essential service (eg getting to work if you are an essential worker, or taking food to a vulnerable person eg an elderly parent who can’t go out) UberX, UberGO, UberBLACK, UberASSIST, UberVIP – Maximum of 1 passenger UberXL – Maximum of 2 passengers UberVan – Maximum of 3 passengers UberEats will not be operating during the lockdown. 