The 38-year-old royal and former actress attended one of her last royal engagements as she and her husband Prince Harry prepare to step back as senior members of the royal family. LONDON - Meghan, Duchess of Sussex, has revealed her son Archie is "into everything", as she discussed her 10-month-old tot with an attendee at the Endeavour Fund Awards. The 38-year-old royal and former actress attended one of her last royal engagements on Thursday as she and her husband Prince Harry prepare to step back as senior members of the royal family. And during the event - which saw both Meghan and Harry attend the Endeavour Fund Awards - the former Suits star reportedly spoke to an attendee about her 10-month-old son Archie, as she said the tot has an interest in "everything" at the moment. Claire Spencer told Hello! magazine: "She said, 'Oh yes, well, he is 10 months now and is into everything.' " Archie is believed to have remained in Canada while Meghan and Harry, 35, attend their final royal engagements before stepping back from royal duties on 31 March. Meanwhile, a source recently said the tot is the priority for Harry and Meghan right now, as they want to try and live as "normal parents" when they officially relocate to Canada at the end of the month. The insider said: "Archie is the priority. It's very much still about taking care of him and putting the family first. He's a happy kid - he loves to laugh. Archie and Harry have such a good time together. And Meghan is a great mom. She's very much about tending to him. They are trying to live their life as regular parents." And during the Endeavour Fund Awards - where they celebrated the achievements of wounded, sick and injured servicemen and women who have participated in sporting and adventure challenges - Harry said he has been told by a lot of people that they have "his back" in the wake of his decision. He said: "Meghan and I are so happy to be back here with you, to celebrate each and every one of you for your achievements, your service and your resilience. Tonight in London, for their third consecutive year, The Duke and Duchess of Sussex attended the annual Endeavour Fund Awards, which celebrates the achievements of those veterans injured in service who have taken part in remarkable sporting and adventure challenges over the last year. By choosing to take on what seems impossible, these men and women not only set goals for themselves but have also inspired millions of people around the world. These annual awards bring together The Duke and The Duchess alongside wounded, injured and sick Service personnel and veterans as well as their families, friends and supporters of the military community. The Duke, who founded the @EndeavourFund, spoke on the night: • “The Endeavour Fund came from seeing the gaping hole that can be left after taking off that uniform. The power that sport and adventurous challenge plays in recovery, yes; but most of all - the chance to be part of a team again while attempting to achieve unthinkable challenges - as if being shot or blown up wasn’t enough, you guys continue to impress, inspire and challenge what it means to have a life changing injury.” • Since its launch in 2012, the Endeavour Fund has supported 108 projects that have directly assisted over 6,000 of those injured in service. Congratulations to all those who participated in endeavours over the last year and inspired others to push the boundaries of what’s possible! #EndeavorFundAwards A post shared by  The Duke and Duchess of Sussex (@sussexroyal) on Mar 5, 2020 at 2:34pm PST  "For some, the military community represents a brotherhood or sisterhood that no other organisation can provide, and for others it's a way of life which you never want to leave. For a lot of us, it's both. "Being able to serve Queen and country is something we all are rightly proud of, and it never leaves us. Once served, always serving! "A lot of you tonight have told me you have my back, well I'm also here to tell you, I've always got yours."