Wits are not due back in training until mid-April when the 21-day lockdown is expected to end. JOHANNESBURG - Bidvest Wits goalkeeper Brandon Petersen on Monday said he was missing the daily banter of his teammates as local football continued to be suspended due to the coronavirus pandemic. Wits are not due back in training until mid-April when the 21-day lockdown is expected to end. Petersen spoke to Eyewitness News about how he is keeping fit and in contact with his teammates during this period. “The trainers have asked us to post videos in the (WhatsApp) group of our workouts to keep one another accountable,” he said. “Definitely for me, I’m missing my teammates. More so because that daily banter and joking around, fooling around, it’s something you really miss but you only realise that now, when you are away from it.” Petersen has also spoken about some of the lessons the ongoing pandemic has taught him. “There’s more to life than just football, even though that’s our job and something we love,” he added. “Sometimes we get caught up in our own little world and forget about the things happening around us because it doesn’t affect us directly and now that we are facing this pandemic, I think for me personally, I realise everything is so precious.” Should the current season resume, Wits will restart from sixth place - 10 points behind leaders Kaizer Chiefs but with a game in hand. Petersen has shared his thoughts on what the Students would need to do to close that gap and win just their second Absa Premiership title. “If we take each and every game as a final and leave everything out there like we have been doing the last three or four games we’ve played, I think we could be much closer to Kaizer Chiefs. That gap opened up and we dropped unnecessary points. We should have won, we drew. We should have drawn, we lost.” With the league penciled to end by 30 June, Petersen has discussed whether players think it is realistic for the current season to go ahead. “I don’t think we can think that at the moment, even though it might look like it is going that way. For us as professional athletes, we need to stay focused. We need to stay ready for when the league does resume. The worst thing we can do is start thinking it’s over and done with and then all of a sudden we need to go back and our minds are not there.”