Presidency spokesperson Khusela Diko said the council, which is chaired by Ramaphosa, will meet to consider recommendations on economic relief measures to help mitigate the impact of coronavirus. JOHANNESBURG – The national command council dealing with COVID-19 is expected to meet on Sunday to assess the implementation of the measures announced by President Cyril Ramaphosa. Ramaphosa declared a state of national disaster last Sunday, introducing several regulations to help curb the spread of COVID-19, including travel bans on passengers from high-risk countries. Following much speculation and fake news on when the president will be speaking to the nation and the contents of that address. Presidency spokesperson Khusela Diko has taken to social media to refute online claims that were doing the rounds, saying the president would announce a shutdown on Sunday. STOP SPREADING FAKE NEWS: The President is  NOT addressing the nation and announcing a lockdown tonight. The National Command Council will meet in a scheduled meeting tomorrow to assess implementation of the directives announced by the President last Sunday. #CoronavirusInSA..1/2 pic.twitter.com/BJgmv1XCSs  Diko said the national command council, chaired by Ramaphosa, will be meeting Sunday to consider recommendations on economic relief measures to help mitigate the impact of coronavirus. The President is then expected to give an update to the nation at a time to be decided after that meeting. South Africa currently has 240 COVID-19 infections across all provinces except the North West and the Northern Cape.   RECENTLY AFFECTED PROVINCES The Free State health department will on Sunday continue screening people who came into contact with seven individuals who tested positive for COVID -19 in Bloemfontein. Since Friday the department has screened nearly 2,000 people including learners and teachers at the Brandwag Secondary School in Bloemfontein. Congregants at a local church have been tested, and the process will continue on Sunday. Spokesperson Mondli Mvambi says, “To make sure that we cover every ground and we cap any potential spread of COVID-19 within Bloemfontein without necessarily going to the extreme measures of a lockdown.” All those tested are thought to have been in contact with people who have been infected after travelling abroad. Meanwhile, the Western Cape recorded the highest increase on Saturday, with 18 new cases reported. -A 30-year-old female who travelled to Ireland -A 57-year-old female who travelled to Germany and Switzerland -A 55-year-old male who travelled to France and Switzerland -A 74-year-old female who travelled to the UK -A 52-year-old male with pending travel history -A 44-year-old male who travelled to USA -A 26-year-old female who travelled to the UK -A 57-year-old male who travelled to Spain -A 36-year-old male who travelled to the UK and France -A 40-year-old female with pending travel history -A 52-year-old female who travelled to the UK -A 48-year-old female who travelled to the UK -A 39-year-old male who travelled to Ireland -A 36-year-old male with pending travel history -A 55-year-old female with pending travel history -A 35-year-old male who travelled to Austria and Germany -A 65-year-old female who travelled to the UK -A 34-year-old male with pending travel history At the same time, the University of Cape Town (UCT) said the three people who have tested positive for COVID-19 were staff members. The university's Elijah Moholola says, "The first case was UCT staff member and the second was a UCT-based visiting researcher. The third, and the latest case, is a UCT employed project manager who worked in the same department as the second case. The three employees are in quarantine, and the department of health has also immediately begun contact tracing.” RESTRICTIONS The ministries of police and tourism have clarified new regulations relating to restaurants and other establishments selling liquor - as the country deals with the COVID-19 outbreak. They said the 50 people allowed in one establishment should include staff members. These are part of the measures announced by the President during his address to the nation last week. Police said they will disperse gatherings where more than one hundred people are gathered. Authorities say people who fail to adhere to the regulations will be fined or arrested. Police ministry spokesperson Mathapelo Peters says, “The condition with staying open after the 6 pm and 1 pm deadlines is that the people on the premises must be 50 or less – including the staff. Consumption establishments that sell liquor, such as taverns, may not continue doing business after the stated hours.”