Faf du Plessis and Rassie van der Dussen make their comebacks after being rested for the series against Australia. JOHANNESBURG - South Africa go into their three-match ODI series against India off the back of a 3-0 series whitewash against Australia, something that will no doubt give a relatively inexperienced team a major confidence boost. India, on the other hand, will look forward to a return to home conditions after suffering a 3-0 series defeat at the hands of New Zealand in the land of the long white cloud. Both sides also welcome back experienced players to help their respective causes. For South Africa, Faf du Plessis and Rassie van der Dussen make their comebacks after being rested for the series against Australia. India meanwhile, will once again be able to call upon the likes of Shikhar Dhawan, Hardik Pandya, and Bhuvneshwar Kumar. Speaking on the eve of the first match in Dharamshala, Proteas skipper Quinton de Kock said he was pleased to have du Plessis back in the mix. “He plays a big, big role for us from a leadership point of view, and I think he is here to help out a lot of the younger guys in our team. He adds a lot of value for us, and he also knows that he has a lot of value to give in this team. It's great to have him around. The experience that he's gained over the years will be a big help for this series for us”, he said. Temba Bavuma has travelled with the squad but there is still uncertainty over whether he will be fit to play or not while Beuran Hendricks, who suffered from the flu during the Australia series is available for selection. South Africa will hope that Bavuma is match fit and available, especially considering the inexperience in their batting line up. The likes of Janneman Malan, JJ Smuts and Kyle Verreynne all making their first trip to the sub-continent. As a result of this, de Kock said the more experienced batters would need to step up. “Obviously, we understand that we've come here with quite an experienced side in these conditions but it's important guys like Faf, myself and David Miller help out these guys. India has become an unbelievable team, they have great bowlers, great batsman, but I'm sure we've also come in here with a lot of confidence”, he said. The first ball is set to be bowled at 10 am (SA time).