The Cape side have currently five Springbok players sidelined with long-term injuries as Super Rugby heads into an indefinite break due to the COVID-19 pandemic. CAPE TOWN - The Stormers have given an update on the current injury situation the club is facing. The Cape side currently has five Springbok players sidelined with long-term injuries as Super Rugby heads into an indefinite break due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Scrumhalf Herschel Jantjies fractured his fibula over the weekend and is expected to be out for three months, while lock JD Schickerling tore a muscle in his arm and will be out for a month. Loosehead prop Steven Kitshoff tore a pectoral muscle which will require surgery and see him out for around four months, captain Siya Kolisi is making good progress, while hooker Bongi Mbonambi and flank Pieter-Steph du Toit are also recovering well. Team doctor Jason Suter addressed the media at the club's high-performance centre (HPC) in Bellville on the challenges the side is facing due to injury. "Siya Kolisi is recovering very well - he's four weeks away to return to play, he was a 10-12 week injury - a Grade 3 medial collateral ligament tear," said Suter. "Bongi is on track and doing well however it was severe injury and is expected to be out four to five months from the time of injury. "Pieter-Steph had a medical emergency after the Blues game. He had a haematoma that developed into an acute compartment syndrome. It's incredibly rare - there have been only 43 cases listed in the literature. It's a medical emergency because if you don't pick it up early they lose blood supply to the leg and they lose the leg." Suter said within 15 minutes of him coming off the field and assessing him, they realised that he was at risk of this particular rare condition. He was taken straight to Vincent Pallotti Hospital where he had a vascular surgeon waiting and he was operated on that night. "It's very unusual, very rare but they had to cut through the muscle to release the pressure and they were only able to close that leg 10 days after his initial injury," he said. "He is recovering well and we expect him to be back, based on the surgeon's report, at around three months."