Minister Cele has warned churches that continue to ignore the state's strict instructions regarding mass gathering, while Minister Mbalula has warned against unnecessary travel. JOHANNESBURG – Police Minister Bheki Cele has issued a stern warning to churches that continue to defy government’s COVID-19 regulations that the law will deal with them decisively. Cele has highlighted his department’s implementation plan aimed at responding to the coronavirus disaster management regulations. Meanwhile here in Gauteng, the health department said it has obtained yet another court order to force a church this time in Katlehong on the Eastman to disperse. Despite government prohibiting gatherings of more than a hundred people, some churches are simply defying the COVID-19 regulations. Minister Bheki Cele has warned churches that continue to ignore the state's strict instructions regarding mass gatherings. “It’s not just a promise, but it’s what we are going to do. They will see the authority of the state.” Meanwhile, here in Gauteng the health department has been forced to approach the courts to stop a church service in Katlehong after the community raised concerns. Government is once again appealing to members of the public to take the regulations seriously as they are part of the solution in dealing with the COVID-19 pandemic. At the same time, Transport Minister Fikile Mbalula says more regulations could be implemented should people fail to follow the current travel restrictions. President Cyril Ramphosa has discouraged non - essential domestic travel as part of measures taken to contain the spread of COVID-19 in the country. Mbalula says extraordinary steps are needed to respond to the outbreak. “Unnecessary traveling; moving from Soweto to your friend in Hilbrow every day must stop, and moving to your friend in Polokwane must stop. Stay where you are and socialise in your surroundings. There is no other way. We have got to lessen the movement and the numbers.”   To track the latest developments around the coronavirus both in South Africa and abroad, click on this live status report from Strategix.