In a video posted to the Stormers website, Kolisi has urged South Africans to act responsibly and to do what they can to help curve the spread of the coronavirus. JOHANNESBURG - Rugby World Cup winning captain, Siya Kolisi on Wednesday called on South Africans to adhere to the restrictions of the 21-day lockdown that will come into effect at midnight on Thursday. In a video posted to the Stormers website, Kolisi has urged South Africans to act responsibly and to do what they can to help curve the spread of the coronavirus. “We have faced a lot of challenges. This is a different one, but I have no doubt if we fight together, different support teams, share ideas, business people, medical people. We just have to do to what the top people are telling us to do”, he said. Kolisi also emphasised the impact that sportspeople can have on society during this time. “The most important thing right now for us as a team is the health of the country and what the people need and to send the right messages and show how much this means to us by making sure we are staying within the rules. As a team, we want to make sure the charities and the foundations that we work with, we will help as much as we can during this period. If its sending messages that's what we will do, if it’s us showing people what we are doing in this time to try and stay fit and healthy, we will do that. It is tough for everybody, not only us, business people are also going through a lot and the families of the medical teams are going through a lot, but we'll do what we can by staying at home, exercising and protecting our families”, he said. With uncertainty around when the Super Rugby season will resume, Kolisi added that it is important for the team to stay in shape and keep their discipline when it comes to training. “Obviously, we as a team will still have responsibility to make sure we stay in shape, we look after ourselves, and obviously abide by the rules that have been set out by the country and obviously the president. We have to be in lockdown, but we have to make sure we use our resources to maintain fitness and conditioning, so that when the day does come that COVID-19 is finished that we are prepared and ready to play”, he said. 