SA cycling star Daryl Impey spoke to EWN Sport from Spain, saying that they were currently living under strict conditions and revealed that he had not been tested for the virus yet. CAPE TOWN - South African cyclist Daryl Impey has revealed he is dealing with COVID-19 pandemic on a day-by-day basis while living under lockdown in Spain due to the coronavirus. Impey spoke to EWN Sport from Spain, saying that they were currently living under strict conditions and revealed that he had not been tested for the virus yet. "It's one of those countries that is banned for outdoor activities... running or cycling... all those things not allowed. The only way to go out is when you go to a pharmacy or shopping," said Impey. "We haven't been tested yet. In Spain it's different. They actually come around to your house if you're showing any symptoms or worried but they also said: "Listen, we don't want people to just be coming around and to check if you  are positive or not." The 35-year-old cyclist said that should the 2020 Tokyo Olympic Games go ahead as planned, it will be difficult for someone like him to compete as he's not allowed to train outside. "It's going to be a big change because in other countries you're still allowed to train," he said. "It's not a doubt about the upper hand - it's very difficult for a guy like me to go and train five hours indoors every day compared to someone who's allowed to. But I think a lot of sports will be hit hard at the same time." Impey also had a message of support for fellow South African and Olympic swimming gold medallist Cameron van der Burgh who said on Sunday that he had contracted Covid-19. "Firstly it's fantastic to see he's not hiding it. I think it's a massive thing for a lot of people out there when they see a guy that is fit as Cameron that can pick up a disease like this. It's unfortunate that he has to go through the difficulties of getting over it but I think coming out like this is going to go a long way for a lot of people to see that it can infect anyone," said Impey. "It shows that we need to pay close attention to it. All the best to him, I think a guy like him will recover fast enough to do what he does best. I hope it doesn't impact his Olympic Games because he's a fantastic athlete as well. For him, he needs to look after himself and get healthy."