Locally, the PSL has resolved to keep the leagues suspended but do hope to end the 2019/20 season by 30 June. JOHANNESBURG - Two psychologists have had their say on how athletes will be impacted mentally by the continued suspension and postponements of sporting fixtures. The Azerbaijan Grand Prix became the latest big sports event to be called off after leagues across world football and Super Rugby were postponed due to the coronavirus. Locally, the PSL has resolved to keep the leagues suspended but do hope to end the 2019/20 season by 30 June. Meanwhile, the International Olympic Committee has given itself a deadline of four weeks to decide if the Olympic Games will take place in Tokyo this year. Rugby World Cup-winning phycologist Henning Gericke says players must continue to train like normal during this period of uncertainty. “If they keep worrying and stress about it, it will not better the situation,” he told Eyewitness News. “Sportspeople have an advantage because they have been in tough situations, things are not always going their way and they've learned to control what they can control but it will definitely affect them mentally.” He also added what sort of attitude they needed to adopt. “It can be something where they challenge themselves and say ‘I can set new goals’, ‘I need to stand up again and do new things’, ‘I need to take care of myself and I will bounce back’. Those skills of resilience will be massive. "When your mind goes into negative stuff, you go into a red headspace. You are over-emotional, over-worried and over-analytical. You try to sort out what is going to happen, but you don’t get anywhere. So, if you can actually train yourself and train your mind to go into a blue headspace. "All sports people need to go into a blue headspace at the moment and a blue headspace is where you have clear, calm thinking: ‘What can I control at the moment?’, ‘What can I still train?’, ‘’How can I keep my body fit?’ What can I do today to keep on going, to keep my mind in a good space and be the best that I can be?” Clinical physiologist, Koketjo Tsebe, shared how self-isolation and quarantine could impact different athletes, depending on their personality. “Let say you are an athlete who is an introvert, some may find it easy because it’s in their nature to interact with a small number of people and to live entirely on their own in the midst of being a team player. Whereas for an extrovert, who enjoys being part of a team, they can be impacted simply because they cannot get that type of contact with the others.”