National team doctor Thulani Ngwenya revealed that only five teams in the local league have full-time sports physicians - resulting in the majority of teams not having detailed medical data on their players. JOHANNESBURG - South African Football Association (Safa) president Danny Jordaan said no decision taken at Thursday’s Premier Soccer League’s (PSL) Board of Governor’s meeting would change the fact that no local football would take place until 4 April. Jordaan reiterated the footballing body’s stance on the postponement of games at Safa house on Wednesday due to the ongoing coronavirus pandemic. With the League set to meet on Thursday to discuss what happens to the rest of the season, Jordaan said they would not shift from their position. “We cannot sit and be part of a discussion with CAF and Fifa to postpone matches and when it comes to our own federation, and we see that we are inadequately provisioned for the protection of players' health that we should proceed”. National team doctor Thulani Ngwenya revealed that only five teams in the local league have full-time sports physicians - resulting in the majority of teams not having detailed medical data on their players. Jordaan added that due to football being a contact sport, they could not observe President Cyril Ramaphosa’s request for people to socially distance themselves from each other if the games go ahead. “Just two clubs will have 80 (staff members),” Jordaan said about gathering involving less than 100 people. “If you have 10 cameramen and three per camera, it’s another 30 and that’s 110. I’m not counting the referees, the technical staff…. You won’t stay within 100. You cannot play football if you must observe social distance," he added. With Afcon 2021 qualifiers and Absa Premiership games affected by the suspension of local football, Jordaan will meet with sponsors in the near future to discuss ways to limit the financial damage the lack of games causes. “We are going to meet with the broadcasters and the commercial partners to explain to them that, unfortunately, we have to put the interests of the players' health first. If any player contracts the virus and suffers as a result, what are the legal implications? Who must be held responsible?”