The already cash strapped airline will only operate between Johannesburg and Cape Town, and on some of its regional routes following a sharp decrease in the demand for air travel as the world grapples the coronavirus pandemic. JOHANNESBURG – After cancelling its international flights due to the outbreak of COVID-19, South African Airways (SAA) said it's concerned about its balance sheet. The already cash strapped airline will only operate between Johannesburg and Cape Town, and on some of its regional routes. SAA said it will communicate with passengers who have already bought tickets, but have now been cancelled. It's no secret that the national carrier is battling to stay afloat. With it being in business rescue, what does this mean for its future operations? The airline's spokesperson Tlali Tlali says, “We have taken note of the decline in demand for air travel, which has been substantial. For us it wouldn’t make commercial logic to continue to operate indiscriminately, despite the realities that we have alluded to.” Tlali said they have kept customers updated on future developments. SAA business rescue practitioners have also requested an extension to 29 March 2020, to present their rescue plan to creditors. Meanwhile, Transport Minister Fikile Mbalula said government does not have the power to prevent South Africans travelling from COVID-19 infected destinations from re-entering the country. The minister said he regulations and Constitution only allow them to prevent foreign nationals from entering. Mbalula has also refuted claims that they're planning on closing airports altogether. He said government has a duty to allow its citizen's returning from coronavirus hotspots to return home because not doing so is breaking the law. The minister has also quelled speculation that it's planning to shut down airports countrywide. Mbalula has also appealed to South Africans to refrain from travelling locally if they don't need to do so. On Friday the government reported that there are at least 202 cases of the coronavirus in the country. More than 270,000 cases have been recorded worldwide; with over 1,000 deaths since the virus emerged last year. There are almost 100, 000 recoveries globally.