This week we focus on the world of sport and how the coronavirus has impacted teams. The Man City vs Arsenal game, which was supposed to take place in Game Week 29, was postponed, causing mayhem for those who brought in City and Gunners assets. It’s Game week 30 – and we’re all going to die of coronavirus …just kidding, but not even FPL is immune to COVID-19. This week we focus on the world of sport and how the coronavirus has impacted our team. The Man City vs Arsenal game, which was supposed to take place in Game Week 29, was postponed, causing mayhem for those who brought in City and Gunners assets. Now, given that there are several variables in the English Premier League as far as game weeks and double game weeks are concerned, will there be more games postponed? Who knows? Listen to the full podcast:  While Serie A in Italy has been cancelled, the English Premier League has until now been unaffected. Could the league ask clubs to play behind closed doors, and will this fly with supporters who pay big money to attend games, not to mention sponsors who are heavily invested? "What’s wrong with playing in an empty stadium?" asks Jason Bechervaise. "They’re professionals after all. Can they not play at the same level in an empty stadium? C’mon." Fair point, but with all this in mind, what does one do with the prospects of a Game Week 31 which holds potential blanks for several teams? Free hit, maybe? "I’m probably not going to free hit," says Wesley Petersen. "I’m just going to back Wolves and Liverpool and be damned in the other fixtures." We also look at the EWN Sport Fantasy Football League (Code: 1y5yf9), and there are some new managers creeping up the log, among them being Jason. The standout fixtures in this Game Week 30 are Spurs vs Manchester United, Watford vs Leicester and Everton vs Liverpool. Will Jamie Vardy fire again? Will Harvey Barnes continue his good form, and will Liverpool put one hand on the Premier League trophy with a win at Goodison Park? Time will tell, but until then … just make sure you wash your hands!