Professional cyclist Nic Dlamini made national headlines after his arm was broken by SANParks rangers at the Table Mountain national park after they alleged he did not show his cycling permit. JOHANNESBURG - Nic Dlamini is back on his bike and in full training as he continues to make his comeback after breaking his arm at the end of 2019. He recently received the all-clear to return to riding outdoors from NTT Pro Cycling's medical department. In light of the current situation with the coronavirus, he has spoken about where he is at the moment. “I’m in Holland, it’s quite a big thing obviously (here) and everyone is aware of it,” he said. “I’ve just been trying not to touch anything as I go about my daily routine and I’ve also been training on my own. In Holland, at the moment you are still permitted to train outdoors but obviously it’s better if you train alone. I also keep a distance when going to the shops and things like that”. Dlamini made national headlines after his arm was broken by SANParks rangers at the Table Mountain national park after they alleged he did not show his cycling permit Looking beyond the incident, he is grateful to have been given the go-ahead from the medical staff to finally ride outdoors. “I’ve trained indoors for 10 weeks, I think that was more than enough!” he laughed. “I was really looking forward to getting outdoors and just spending time on my bike, taking in the view and getting some fresh air for a bit. "I had been waiting for that day for a long time and it finally came. I’m glad to be outside again and getting closer to where I was before”. Dlamini also had this to say on how the 2020 Olympic postponement works in his favour. “It gives me enough time to prepare,” he said about the Tokyo Games which will now take place in 2021. “Also with the coronavirus and with the readjustment of the calendar it plays into my hands as well, so in a way, I have a lot of time to prepare and I don’t have to keep playing catch up. So when the racing resumes, I’ll pretty much be on the same level as everyone and also the Olympics next year as well and I’ll hopefully be in good shape for them. I look forward to making the selection and hopefully get to represent South Africa there.”