South Africa records 5 more COVID-19 deaths, bring the total to 18, with 1,845 confirmed cases; Communications Minister Stella Ndabeni-Abrahams put on special leave for breaching lockdown regulations and the UIF records claims of more than R300m since lockdown began. CAPE TOWN - South Africa records 5 more COVID-19 deaths, bring the total to 18, with 1,845 confirmed cases; Communications Minister Stella Ndabeni-Abrahams put on special leave for breaching lockdown regulations and the UIF records claims of more than R300m since lockdown began. DAY 13 OF LOCKDOWN BY THE NUMBERS • Thursday marks 100 days since China first notified the WHO of cases of "pneumonia with unknown cause". • 5 more deaths on Wednesday in South Africa, bringing to 18 the total number of known deaths due to COVID-19. • We have now had 1,845 confirmed cases since the first case was diagnosed. • Globally more than 1.4 million people are confirmed to have contracted the virus and more than 82,000 have died. WATCH: COVID 19 Situation Desk - 8 April 2020 PM  SPECIAL LEAVE FOR NDABENI-ABRAHAMS • The president put his Communications Minister on special leave after she broke lockdown regulations by having lunch with former ANC MP Mduduzi Manana and his family. • She’s had a month’s salary docked and will be on special leave for 2 months. • Ndabeni-Abrahams posted a video apology to the president and the nation. • The EFF laid a formal charge against her in the afternoon for contravening lockdown regulations. WATCH: Communications Minister's apology for breaking lockdown rules  THE ECONOMY • News that the UIF has doubled its claims payouts since the beginning of the lockdown. • 22,776 employers have applied for COVID-19 related relief since the lockdown began. • The UIF has recorded claims to the tune of more than R300m. • Web traffic to the UIF site spiked – rising from 49,000 hits on 21 March to well over a half a million 4 days later. GLOBALLY • British Prime Minister Boris Johnson's condition is improving - he’s still in ICU, but he’s able to sit up in bed and engage with clinical staff. • At the same time, the Director of the UK’s NHS says the number of coronavirus infections and hospital admissions are beginning to show signs of flattening. • A different story in Europe - where the ECDC says there’s no sign yet that the peak of outbreak has been reached.