South Africa is under increasing pressure to mitigate the effects of the coronavirus on the economy. JOHANNESBURG - President Cyril Ramaphosa on Tuesday evening announced sweeping measures in response to the distress the national lockdown was exerting on already impoverished communities, including an increase in social grants, as well as an income grant for the unemployed. South Africa is under increasing pressure to mitigate the effects of the coronavirus on the economy. • Full speech: Ramaphosa announces economic and social response to COVID-19 Those who can work from home during the lockdown are doing so, but there are millions of citizens who can’t and are battling growing uncertainty and anxiety over their futures. Since its implementation four weeks ago, the lockdown has wreaked havoc on the economy and the effects have been largely felt by South Africa’s already vulnerable communities. Government has been inundated with desperate pleas for food parcels and whatever help is available from people who are struggling to make ends meet. The situation has become desperate. “Poverty and food insecurity have deepened dramatically in the course of just a few weeks,” Ramaphosa said. WATCH: Ramaphosa announces R500bn economic stimulus package  The president announced government’s plan to cushion the blow. “This means that child support grant beneficiaries will receive an extra R300 in May and from June to October they will receive an additional R500 each month. All other grant beneficiaries will receive an extra R250 per month for the next six months,” Ramaphosa said. Government will also pay R350 for the next six months to unemployed individuals who do not receive any form of social grants or UIF payment. The South African Social Security Agency (Sassa) would roll out food assistance through vouchers and cash transfers. R70 BILLION TAX RELIEF At the same time, government announced new tax measures that will provide R70 billion in cash flow relief or direct payments to businesses and individuals. Ramaphosa said government had introduced a four-month tax holiday for companies, skills, development, and levy contributions. “In addition to existing tax relief measures, we will also be introducing a four-month holiday for companies’ skills development levy contributions, fast-tracking VAT refunds and a three-month delay for filing and first payment of carbon tax,” the president said. Ramaphosa said to assist businesses, the amount for tax deferral was increased to R100 million a year. “Businesses with a turnover of more than R100 million a year can apply directly to SARS on a case-by-case basis for deferrals of their tax payments. “No penalties for late payments will be applicable if they can show they have been materially negatively impacted in this period,” he said. The president also said taxpayers who donated to the Solidarity Fund would be able to claim up to 10% as a deduction from their taxable income.