The Matsatsantsa captain announced in December that he would be leaving the club to return to the United Kingdom for family reasons. JOHANNESBURG - Dean Furman admits he’s not yet secured a move back to England ahead of his departure from SuperSport United at the end of the season. The Matsatsantsa captain announced in December that he would be leaving the club to return to the United Kingdom for family reasons. With the coronavirus pandemic having seen the postponement of football across the globe, Furman admits he is in limbo about his next move. “This would have been the prime time to start talking to clubs over in the UK but just as with here, football clubs in the UK are all on hold as well,” said on Talk Radio 702. “So, it’s very hard to speak to clubs about next season when they don’t even know what’s happening this season. They don’t know when they are going to start up again. They don’t know if they are going to start up again. They don’t know financially how this is going to affect them”. Having played for English side Brentford before moving to SuperSport in 2019, Furman knows the toll traveling will have on his spot at club level. Despite those concerns, the midfielder is confident his spot in the Bafana Bafana starting 11 will not be affected by his impending move abroad. “Obviously being in the UK, I have done that before. I will admit it’s difficult traveling, coming back and you fall back and lose your place in the team because you’ve missed a week of matches and training,” he said of his previous experience. “I hope to still remain available. That’s something I’ll have to look into when I find my new team. Obviously, that’s going to be a difficult situation but the (Bafana) coach (Molefi Nsteki) knows what I offer to the team. So hopefully it’s not a case of out of sight, out of mind”. With the Premier League requesting players to take a 30% pay cut as a result of the coronavirus pandemic which has brought a halt to matches, Furman has discussed whether the same has been requested from SuperSport United players. “So far there has been no wage cuts discussed,” he said about the club’s position. “Obviously the higher powers will make those kinds of decisions based on the financial status of different football clubs. At the moment we haven’t had that discussion and we’ll just wait and see”. Local football is currently suspended but the Premier Soccer League's board of governors hope to conclude the season by June 30.