South Africa lost the four match test series against England 3-1 before drawing the ODI series and losing the T20s. JOHANNESBURG - Proteas coach Mark Boucher on Wednesday said he was “disappointed” at the summer that the  team had. South Africa lost the four-match test series against England 3-1 before drawing the ODI series and losing the T20's. Australia were then in town for three T20s and three ODIs. Boucher's chargers lost the T20 series 3-0 before ending the home summer on a high after an ODI series whitewash against the baggy greens. With the side finding their feet both behind the scenes and on the field, Boucher said there were a lot of ups and downs over the course of the season. “I think it was quite disappointing to be honest, especially against England, you know we didn't perform like we wanted to, in saying that I think we as a new coaching staff asked some questions and I think we got some answers some good, some bad. Our performance against Australia was the light at the end of the tunnel, but certainly there's still a hell of a lot of work to do,” he said. A number of new faces were brought in over the summer including the likes of Kyle Verreynne and Janneman Malan while Jon-Jon Smuts and Heinrich Klaasen also featured. Boucher said he was pleased with how the new players responded. “It was always going to be difficult for those players. I think one thing that we sort of wanted to do as a coaching staff was to give opportunities to guys where we saw that we could maybe rest a couple of the senior players and in a way, almost throw them into the deep end and see what they could do. I was pleasantly surprised at how they responded,” he said. As well as new faces on the pitch, there were also some new but familiar faces behind the scenes with the likes of Jacques Kallis, Paul Harris, Charl Langeveldt and Justin Ontong forming part of the coaching staff with Enoch Nkwe assisting Boucher. “Obviously, I spent a lot of time with Jacques and Paul who have come in as guys just helping out in the system and they've done great work. I think the core of the coaching staff is sort of myself and Enoch, then you get Langeveldt from the bowling side of things, he's been brilliant and Ontong as well as the fielding coach. I think he adds a lot of value in the batting department as well, so I think we would be stupid not to use him in all disciplines,” he said.