South Africans are into the third week of the lockdown aimed at curbing the rapid spread of the coronavirus. JOHANNESBURG - Cooperative Governance Minister Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma on Thursday said when the lockdown ends, there would be a gradual relaxation of regulations. She has been speaking as part of an inter-ministerial committee meeting on the lockdown regulations on Thursday. “We cannot do it abruptly, that today it’s complete lockdown then tomorrow it’s completely open. We have to phase it so that there is an orderly move towards what would be a normality.” The minister says the sale of alcohol is still banned. “Liquor is not allowed to be exported in the same way that it is not allowed to be sold.” However, certain goods coming in at ports don’t need to be sanitised. “If the goods have been at sea for many days, the virus will not survive. So there’s no need at the ports for the goods that have been at sea for a long time to be sanitised.” And the regulations around funerals remain with only 50 people allowed. * LIVE BLOG: Day 21 of lockdown - what's next for SA? BRUTALITY Minister of Defence and Military Veterans Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula said she had noted the reports that one person in Alexandra was killed allegedly by an SANDF members. It is alleged that Collins Khoza was beaten to death by soldiers last week. She said government would visit the Khoza family and that it was sending its condolences. The minister said an investigation into the matter was under way. "We are saddened, we regret what happened. We do not know what the circumstance which led to such were. The law will take its course." WATCH: Government updates SA on coronavirus lockdown extension  South Africans are into the third week of the lockdown aimed at curbing the rapid spread of the coronavirus. Mass testings are taking place around the country, treatment is being offered to those who need it and awareness campaigns are being ramped up. As part of the lockdown, mass restrictions have been implanted across various sectors to help stem the spread of the virus. Health officials are particularly worried about community transmissions, which have the potential to increase exponentially if left unchecked. The lockdown has come with its fair share of challenges and the lives of millions of citizens have been disrupted. Many have been left with no income and calls are growing for the government to ease some restrictions and open parts of the economy. Meanwhile, Cabinet is expected to finalise the country's socio-economic recovery plan post the COVID-19 lockdown period after more consultations.