Janine Van Wyk is currently without a club after leaving Danish side Fortuna Hjorring due to a knee injury. JOHANNESBURG - Banyana Banyana captain Janine van Wyk said retirement was not on the cards because she still wanted to win one more competition with the national team. Van Wyk is currently without a club after leaving Danish side Fortuna Hjorring in January due to a knee injury. She spoke to Eyewitness News about her future. “I’m still fit and ready and I’m still able to play,” she said. “A lot of people go on about an athlete's age and will start asking questions about retirement, but for me, it’s about how I feel and how my body feels. Right now, I still feel very good and I still have a couple of goals that I set out for myself. Like winning the Afcon, I want that gold medal”. Van Wyk said being able to play abroad was a dream come true after spending a season with American side Houston Dash. When it comes to life after football, Van Wyk will go into coaching when she hangs up her boots. “I want to get into coaching,” she said. “I feel like I have a lot of experience and knowledge that I am able to share with youngsters and that is what I am aiming to do. Whether it’s at a youth age or my first team at JvW (football club), we’ll see. But hopefully, I can coach Banyana Banyana one day”. One of the big names at her football club is Olympic champion Caster Semenya. The 800-metre athlete confirmed she joined the side as she aimed to keep fit  during her ongoing legal batter with World Athletics. Van Wyk said while Semenya had talent, there were things she needed to work on. “She can kick a ball and she is quick with her feet. There are things she needs to work on like her coordination, but that is because she runs straight lines. Twisting and turning is something she still needs to adapt too”. Van Wyk added that Semenya had been an uplifting presence around the training ground. “Very inspiring presence and the youngsters look up to her even though she is not a footballer just yet, but just having her on the field is amazing. She is very down to earth”.