Kaizer Chiefs and Orlando Pirates have donated personal protective equipment to assist in the fight against coronavirus. JOHANNESBURG - Health Minister Zweli Mkhize on Wednesday said there were now 2,506 coronavirus infections in South Africa. Speaking at a press briefing on Wednesday, Mkhize said the virus had so far claimed 34 lives in total. "It is with sadness that we report seven new COVID-19 related deaths. Six of these deaths are from KwaZulu and one of them is from the Gauteng." He said the new deaths were from the past several days, and were only confirmed at a later stage. He was joined by his deputy Joe Phaahla, Kaizer Chiefs founder Kaizer Motaung, Orlando Pirates chairman Irvin Khoza and MultiChoice group director Imtiaz Patel. The two soccer clubs and MultiChoice have donated personal protective equipment to assist in the fight against coronavirus. #Coronavirus As we wait for the briefing involving Orlando Pirates chairperson Dr Irvin Khoza and Kaizer Chiefs’ Kaizer Motaung, health minister Zweli Mkhize confirms the Soweto giants have donated Personal Protective Equipment as well as gloves, masks, goggles, shoe protectors. pic.twitter.com/Qf0Kx5y8OK  Mkhize said most had underlying conditions: “Some of the people go in and get admitted not being seen as COVID-19 infections but as they get treated, tests are done, and more information is required on them.” He also gave a breakdown of the infections: “Gauteng is at 930, Western Cape is at 657 and KwaZulu Natal is at 519 cases. Eastern Cape has also increased with 119 and the Free State is at 97 cases, Limpopo at 25, North West at 23 and Mpumalanga at 22 cases. Northern Cape at 16 and there are still some, which are unallocated.” Meanwhile, Kaizer Chiefs director Kaizer Motaung said the players would play their part in fighting the virus. “I am pleased to announce that our players, from both Kaizer Chiefs and Orlando Pirates, will embark on a nationwide social media public campaign in a bid to raise awareness and encourage everyone to stay at home and observe strict guidelines of personal hygiene.” Orlando Pirates chair Irvin Khoza compared fighting the coronavirus to playing soccer.: “By staying at home, you have taken a much-needed defence position the nation requires at this stage of the game.” For official information about COVID-19 from the Department of Health, please click here.