Racehorse 'Do It Again' will aim to make it a second successive L’Ormarins Queen’s Plate when he lines up against a strong field at Kenilworth Race Course on Saturday. CAPE TOWN - Winning the L’Ormarins Queen’s Plate in 2019 was a good omen for Do It Again. He followed that victory by winning at the Vodacom Durban July for a second time. He's back this year to defend his title with Richard Fourie, his regular big race partner. “2019 probably had one of the strongest lead-ups to the Queen’s Plate. With that Green Point Stakes finish between defending champion Legal Eagle, Undercover Agent, Do It Again and Rainbow Bridge, the build-up was out of this world.” The hype was justified and the race proved a clash for the ages. Stalwart miler Legal Eagle dominated the L’Ormarins Queen’s Plate honour roll for three consecutive years and had his sights on Pocket Power’s record of four in a row, but standing between him and a fourth trophy were the likes of 2018 Vodacom Durban July winner Do It Again, subsequent Sun Met winner Rainbow Bridge, Gr. 1 Rising Sun Gold Challenge winner Undercover Agent, Mike de Kock’s sensational 3-year-old Soqrat and Majorca Stakes-winning filly, Snowdance. The stage was set and the 2019 LQP Racing Festival crowd was in for a thriller. The Gr. 1 L’Ormarins Queen’s Plate began explosively. Fourie tucked Do It Again in behind runners, letting him bowl along in a ground-saving position along the rail, content to let the rest of the field do the hard work up in front. As they flashed past the 500m marker, Fourie switched his mount out smartly, pressed the button and Do It Again fell into his devastating, ground-eating stride, picking off horses the length of the straight. Soqrat fought valiantly in the closing stages but found no answers to Do It Again, who simply kept finding more to snatch victory in the shadow of the post. His face and emotional post-race salute probably said it best, but what was going through Fourie’s mind at the time? “It’s hard to explain,” he muses. “The L’Ormarins Queen’s Plate is one of those races you really want to win as a jockey. The whole build-up and atmosphere is special and it’s one of the few days of the year with that kind of crowd and hype. It’s one of those races that are just out of this world. That first win was an extraordinary feeling and to win it on an extraordinary horse just made it all the more special.” With Do It Again’s connections resisting the temptation of an international campaign, it is a privilege for local fans to have him on our tracks. “He's always been a progressive sort of horse and has come on in his own time, but he really is a sensational horse. You can't compare, because they're all different in their own right, but I've ridden some champions in my career and what he's done is just amazing. To defend the July twice in a row. Not many can do that. He’s a superstar.” Fourie works Do It Again at the Snaiths’ Philippi base four times a week and says the horse is a pleasure to work with. “He is a special horse, obviously, which he proved when he won a second Vodacom Durban July. He’s very clever and he’s got his ways, so you can see if he's going to get upset. When he does, it’s like the flip of a coin, so you've got to understand him to read him and keep him in his happy space, but he’s a very smart horse. He knows he’s good, particularly after winning those big races – you can just see it in his character,” he smiles, “but he’s a gentleman,” he said. “At the moment, we’re just keeping him ticking over and in his happy place. The L’Ormarins Queen’s Plate is one of the greatest races to win as a jockey. I definitely want to defend our title and then hopefully we can really write history and win a third July!” Fourie said.