After beating fellow nominees Damian de Allende, Cheslin Kolbe, Makazole Mapimpi and Duane Vermeulen to the title, he now joins Naas Botha and Bryan Habana as the only other player to have won it three times. JOHANNESBURG - Following a hugely successful 2019 that included a Rugby World Cup win and a victorious Rugby Championship campaign, Pieter-Steph du Toit has been named SA Rugby Player of the Year on Friday. The award makes him a three-time winner of the category and fits in line with him being awarded the World Rugby Player of the Year. After beating fellow nominees Damian de Allende, Cheslin Kolbe, Makazole Mapimpi and Duane Vermeulen to the title, he now joins Naas Botha and Bryan Habana as the only other player to have won it three times. Last year was unbelievable for the Springboks and coach Rassie Erasmus, with both being awarded Team of the Year and Coach of the Year respectively. After scoring a brace of tries against New Zealand on his debut, Herschel Jantjies was given the Young Player of the Year award. Bulls flyhalf Handre Pollard was rewarded for his 194 points throughout the season when he was named Super Rugby Player of the Year. The Springbok Sevens Player of the Year was awarded to Siviwe Soyizwapi after ending up as the top try scorer on the Sevens circuit. He was also given the captaincy in the absence of the injured Phillip Snyman. With the Women’s World Cup next year, the Springbok women qualified for the showpiece in no small part due to the impressive performances of Aseza Hele, who became 2019’s Springbok Women’s Achiever of the Year. SA Wheelchair Rugby became the first-ever winners of the new category SA Rugby Associate Member award. Mark Alexander, president of SA Rugby, congratulated all the winners for their contribution to a memorable 2019 season in South Africa. “Pieter-Steph led the charge for the Springboks and he deserves this accolade to go with his World Player of the Year award,” said Alexander. “The 2019-season will be ingrained in our memories for decades to come, thanks to Rassie, Siya [Kolisi} and the Springboks, but all our national teams did well and we are proud of all the winners.”