Wales and British and Irish Lions legend Roberts will add valuable experience as both a player and mentor for the Stormers in the 2020 Super Rugby season. CAPE TOWN - Wales centre Jamie Roberts has left Bath with immediate effect to join Super Rugby's Stormers. The Wales and British & Irish Lions legend Roberts will add valuable experience as both a player and mentor for the Stormers in the 2020 Super Rugby season. The seasoned midfielder has joined the Stormers through the financial support of a corporate partner and will play a major role in nurturing the talent around him in Cape Town this season. Western Province Rugby's strategic player development programme, coordinated by Stormers head coach John Dobson, has identified the need to strengthen the squad with a senior backline player of international quality. The current backline is very talented but relatively inexperienced in certain key positions in terms of international and Super Rugby. Roberts' depth of experience and huge talent is a significant boost in accelerating the player experience curve. The polymath centre amassed a total of 97 Test caps for Wales and the British and Irish Lions over an illustrious career and is looking forward to fulfilling a long-time dream of playing Super Rugby. Having played regularly in the Premiership with Bath this season, Roberts comes to Cape Town ready to hit the ground running, with the Stormers kicking their Super Rugby campaign off against the Hurricanes at Newlands on 1 February. "It has long been a goal of mine to play in the Southern Hemisphere and I cannot think of a better place to do so than in the Western Cape, where people are so passionate about their rugby and also staying in Cape Town which is such an amazing city. While I am looking forward to wearing the shirt, my key drive is to perform on the pitch, win week in week out and to help to drive success," said Roberts. "Having toured South Africa with my school, Sevens, club and Wales National Team, then playing in the 2009 British and Irish Lions series as a young player which was a highlight in my career, to spend some time down here and contribute to the fantastic rugby culture will be a special privilege. "Every time I have been to South Africa, it has always struck me as a beautiful country with rugby at its heart, which reminds me very much of home. It feels very special to be able to come and play rugby in South Africa. "While I am looking forward to pulling the Stormers jersey on, this will also be a fantastic opportunity for me to help impart some knowledge and insight on the many talented youngsters that we have here," he said.