Vernon Philander joined Quinton de Kock at the crease hoping to show some of the fights that Anrich Nortje spoke about after his 5 wicket haul on day two. WANDERERS STADIUM - South Africa began day three of the fourth Test against England  with their backs firmly against the wall on 88/6. Vernon Philander  joined Quinton de Kock  at the crease hoping to show some of the fights that Anrich Nortje spoke about after his 5 wicket haul on day two. That wasn't to be though as Philander added just 4 runs before Woakes and Broad combined to remove the all-rounder with the just the 5th ball of the day. At the other end, De Kock was doing his best to hold the innings together and brought up his 21st Test half-century and fourth of the series with a punch through the covers. De Kock found a willing partner in Dwaine Pretorius and the pair looked as though they would take South Africa to lunch. Ben Stokes though had other ideas and had Pretorius caught at gully for 37. A back of length ball that found the outside and allowed Crawley to take a low catch to his left. The pair putting on 79 for the 8th wicket. The very next over and de Kock was sent back to the hit after Wood got one to jag back at the left-hander and clip the top of the bails. A battling knock of 76 coming to end with Wood taking his 4th of the match. Wood completed his second 5 wicket haul when he had Paterson caught behind by Buttler. South Africa all out for 183 and still 217 runs behind. England elected to bat again and once again were off to a solid start with openers Dom Sibley and Zak Crawley putting on 56 for the first wicket. South Africa also suffered a major blow with Vernon Philander leaving the field after just his second over with a suspected right hamstring strain. Despite that, the opening partnership was eventually broken by a beautiful delivery from Pretorius that kicked up off the surface and found the edge of Crawley's bat. The 21-year- old out for 24. Joe Denly joined Sibley at the crease with the pair adding 19 runs before Paterson was brought back into the attack and struck with the first ball. Denly cleaned bowled for 8. There were a few nervy moments for Sibley and Root before the tea break with Paterson looking the most likely to another wicket. He beat the outside edge a number of times got a few to nip back at the batsman as well. England though went into the tea break in a commanding position on 86/2 and leading by 303 runs. South Africa needed an early breakthrough after tea and got just that when Sibley clipped one straight to Malan at mid-wicket off the bowling of Beuran Hendricks. The opener went for 44. Ben Stokes joined his captain in the middle and looked to take the game even further away from the home side. The all-rounder wasted little time at the crease, scoring 28 from 24 that included 6 fours. His quick-fire knock was brought to an end by Hendricks who had him caught by van der Dussen at slip for his second scalp of the innings. England still in a commanding position on 136/4 and a lead of 353. Wickets were falling at regular intervals for England with Ollie Pope the next to go. De Kock taking the catch behind the stumps off the bowling of Nortje. The gloveman becoming the fastest keeper to 200 dismissals in tests, reaching the milestone in his 46th outing and taking one less game than Adam Gilchrist. 200 dismissals soon became 201 as Nortje and de Kock combined once again to remove Buttler for 8. South Africa doing a good job of trying to restrict England to a lead of under 400. Their efforts to achieve that mini-milestone were in vain though as Root and Curran put on 46 for the 7th wicket. Curran was eventually sent back to the change rooms with Paterson taking a good catch on the fine leg boundary to get rid of the left-hander for a 29 ball 35. Two deliveries later and Hendricks had his 4th. Woakes caught behind by de Kock for 0. With wickets falling around him, Root continued to play his game brought his second 50 of the match and 48th overall. Hendricks though would have the final say on the day. A brilliant diving catch by Faf du Plessis at gully to get rid of his opposite number and give Hendricks his 5th wicket of the innings. The debutant walking away with figures of 5/64. South Africa though do have a mountain to climb over the next two days with England setting them a daunting 466 to win.