Stellenbosch coach Steve Barker doesn't think or believe the team's poor performance is caused by the lack of discipline and concentration. CAPE TOWN - Stellenbosch FC coach Steve Barker has blamed player fatigue for the team's inconsistency following a 2-1 loss to Bloemfontein Celtic at Cape Town Stadium on Tuesday. Celtic came from behind to steal three points against Stellies thanks to goals from Mzwanele Mahashe and Ndumiso Mabena's late strike with the home side having scored first through striker Ryan Moon's header. Stellenbosch found themselves in trouble ahead of the Celtic clash after suffering a third loss in their last five matches with a 2-0 defeat to Bidvest Wits over the weekend. Barker, though, doesn't think or believe the team's poor performance is caused by the lack of discipline and concentration. "When you get fatigued you make more mistakes - it's not lack of focus but a tiredness that catches up to you, I'm not too sure because I didn't see the goals obviously. But I think the first goal was a bit soft - it's softish where you conceded in a setpiece type of incident," said Barker. "You work hard to get the lead and to concede like that is lack of concentration. I wouldn't say its a lack of discipline but just fatigue that catches up with you and you make mistakes." Barker said he was happy and satisfied with Stellies' newly signing Granwald Scott's performance after two matches. The Stellenbosch-based side also announced the signing of Zimbabwean international and former AmaZulu and Kaizer Chiefs midfielder Ovidy Karuru on Tuesday. "With Granwald, I didn't want to play him for the full 90 minutes - it wasn't the plan but as the game turned out he did cramp out on the weekend to come off. I didn't really want to play him for thefull match but the experience that he brings to the midfield, I thought I should play him," said Barker. "I was pleased with his performance as he adds value to the team on and off the field, especially having not played for such a long time. With Karuru we thought we should throw him in because we needed a sort of fresh energy and he did provide that." Stellenbosch is currently sitting in 15th position after playing 17 matches with just 15 points. The Cape side will travel to Makhulong Stadium on Saturday to face Highlands Park.