The DA confirmed on Saturday it's submitted an urgent application asking the high court to set aside the suspensions of Tshwane Speaker Katlego Mathebe and former Johannesburg Speaker Vasco da Gama. JOHANNESBURG – The Democratic Alliance (DA) ays it will not allow Gauteng Cooperative Governance MEC Lebongang Maile  to disregard the rule of law and hold the residents of Tshwane and Johannesburg to ransom. The DA confirmed on Saturday it's submitted an urgent application asking the high court to set aside the suspensions of Tshwane Speaker Katlego Mathebe and former Johannesburg Speaker Vasco da Gama. Maile announced last week his decision to suspend the pair. Da Gama has been suspended for the three months without pay over his decision to postpone the vote for a new Johannesburg mayor and Mathebe for six months following her failure to preside over a council meeting. The DA's Mike Moriarty has described Maile's decision as unlawful and prejudice. “What is going to happen now is that any decision that council has taken is in the absence of these councillors could be challenged, and that would result in harming the citizens of Tshwane and Johannesburg. So we are going to court to have this unlawful decision set aside.” Maile says he will meet the Da in court. “We responded to them and we told that our council is dealing with the matter. Whilst our council was dealing with the matter, they ran to court. That is why I am saying where we are, our council will guide us on how to proceed. But if the matter is in court, we will definitely be in court.” **ANC READY TO NOMINATE ACTING TSHWANE SPEAKER ** The African National Congress (ANC) in Tshwane says now that the speaker of council in the capital Katlego Mathebe has been suspended, the party will put forward a nomination for someone to act in the process. The MEC says they are constitutional delinquents and acted contrary to their responsibilities when they collapsed council meetings. ANC Tshwane chairperson Kgosi Maepa said, “Remember this is a continuation meeting, so it’s not a new meeting. It’s a simple continuation of a meeting that the speaker collapsed, that’s why she was suspended. So we will continue with all those four motions and we will vote on them, that’s it.”