Aubrey Modiba has been on the radar of Mamelodi Sundowns for two seasons now but after turning down an offer from the Brazilians, he will be remaining at SuperSport. JOHANNESBURG - Stan Matthews has confirmed that the highly-rated Aubrey Modiba will be staying at SuperSport United after turning down a move to Mamelodi Sundowns. The midfielder has been on the radar of Matsatsantsa’s Tshwane rivals for two seasons now but after turning down an offer from the Brazilians, he will be remaining at the club. “Aubrey Modiba is staying and will be one of the [contract] extensions we announce next week, so there's nothing to report on him,” Matthews on Friday. “Obviously, you'll ask me about interest from here and interest from there – yes, there was interest from Sundowns, and we did have discussions with Sundowns; the player also had discussions with Sundowns, and the net result was that we and he declined their offer. "So, there is no more talk of Aubrey Modiba going to Sundowns, he has committed himself to an extended contract and he will be with us for other four-and-a-half years.” Matthews has also confirmed that the club is starting to plan for life without Dean Furman, with the midfielder expected to leave at the end of the season. “Anytime between now and the 31st of August that Dean wants to stay at SuperSport United, we will make a plan, but for now we are planning on him going back (to England) to start a family with his wife but the door is open. But as we are now, he is going.” The team also celebrated goalkeeper Ronwen Williams today after he reached a landmark 300 games.  The shot-stopper has been at the club for 15 years and he celebrated his recent milestone by signed a contract extension to 2024. "In many ways, Ronwen is the poster child of the club,” Matthews said about the 27-year-old. “He represents so much of what we stand for in terms of trying to give maximum opportunity for talented young players to shine. "He joined us as a 12-year-old, having to live miles away from his parents in an unfamiliar environment and has worked his socks off to be Bafana Bafana number-one, PSL goalkeeper of the year and an integral part of the last six trophies he has helped us win. "We are all truly proud of him – a homegrown talent and a reflection of how hard work, passion, discipline, and sacrifice can enable you to reach your dreams.”