Western Province Rugby has announced that Paul Zacks will be stepping down as Western Province Rugby Group CEO, effective 31 January 2020. CAPE TOWN - Paul Zacks will be stepping down as Western Province Rugby Group CEO, effective 31 January 2020, the rugby union franchise announced on Monday. “The last four years have been an extremely challenging period for WP Rugby, both off and on the field, and having reached a point of more stability, it’s a natural time for someone else to come in and take up the reigns with renewed energy and vigour," Zacks said in a statement. “I would like to thank the Chairman and the Board of Directors, the President of Western Rugby Football Union (WPRFU), Exco members, WP Rugby’s sponsors, commercial partners, the Faithful and especially the staff for their support during this time,” he said. Western Province Professional Rugby (WPPR) chairperson Dr Johan van der Merwe said: “We appreciate the professionalism with which Paul fulfilled his responsibilities over the past four years. Unfortunately, the pressure associated with the role has had a negative impact on Paul’s health, and we accept his decision to step down in light of this.” WP Rugby said Zacks has done invaluable work for WP Rugby during his tenure including implementing significant cost-saving initiatives as well as the introduction of new revenue streams to support business continuity. He was also instrumental in securing the stadium move to Cape Town Stadium – providing the team and supporters with a new world-class home base from 2021. "The DHL Stormers are well into their pre-season preparation, and under the leadership of head coach, John Dobson, and his formidable coaching team, we are looking forward to a great season ahead in Vodacom Super Rugby. First and foremost, our focus is on ensuring that the team has everything it needs to perform and it will be business as usual while we recruit a new CEO," Van der Merwe said. A general business committee has been appointed to handle the business end of rugby until a replacement is found. The committee will compromise of two representatives from the company’s shareholder as well as two independent directors from the company’s board of directors.