The Citizens completed the signing of Mdantsane in late December after he was released from Baroka. CAPE TOWN - Cape Town City FC new signing Mduduzi Mdantsane feels being in Cape Town is a dream come true. The 25-year-old former Baroka FC captai on Thursday said he was slowly adapting to the new coach style of play and he believed in his philosophy. The Citizens completed the signing of Mdantsane in late December after he was released from Baroka. Mdantsane said being at City was a dream come true. "It's nice to be here I'm very happy and the guys have welcomed me very well; the technical team is happy to have me around. I'm so hopeful that my football will change a bit because I'll be playing amongst the guys who've been here for long - international players - so it has been great," said Mdantsane. "It's a great achievement for me and hopefully I'll gel well with the team and help to win trophies. For me, I just want to win and believe the team wants to win too. Players here are so nice - they always encourage me - for me, I just have to work hard and make sure I stay in the team, even if I'm not playing, I will support the team." The attacking midfielder believes the Citizens is playing his style of football and its easy to adapt. "Judging the way they play here, it's kind of my football - they keeping the ball and play the simple football. It's something that I'm used to and I know for sure that I'll grow personally and grow my football as well." Mdantsane said he was happy that the clearance certificate issue had been something of the past and could now enjoy his football at peace. Baroka claimed that they never issued the player his clearance, despite confirmation of his release. The club had to appear before the Premier Soccer League’s Dispute Resolution Chamber to settle the matter. "There's nothing much I can say about that but I'm happy its all over now and I can start focusing on the football that I'm playing. I'm at City now and I think that's the most important thing for me and just play whenever I get a chance to play and forget about what happened in the past."