A first-half strike from Gabadinho Mhango secured Orlando Pirates a 1-0 win over Mamelodi Sundowns on Wednesday night as the Brazilians remain nine points behind log leaders Kaizer Chiefs. JOHANNESBURG - Pitso Mosimane said he was not worried about the nine-point gap that remained between Mamelodi Sundowns and Absa Premiership log leaders Kaizer Chiefs following Wednesday night’s defeat to Orlando Pirates. A first-half strike from Gabadinho Mhango, his 11th of the season, secured the Buccaneers a 1-0 win, as they bagged their first win over their Tshwane rivals at Orlando Stadium in nine attempts. With their grip on the league title looking like it’s slipping, Mosimane said he was not worried about the gap. “Why worry about nine points difference when people don’t worry about nine league titles?” Mosimane said after the match on Wednesday night. “Why should I worry about nine points when people don’t worry about going to the club World Cup? People don’t worry about winning the champions league, and I worry about nine points?”. Mosimane also joked that maybe he should consult his international colleagues to help him deal with the gap at the top of the table. “That’s why I say, maybe I should call Pep (Guardiola) because I’ve got his number. I can ask him, to say, ‘hey Pep, you are in trouble, my friend. 15 points, what what… what are you going to do?’ I mean it’s football, what are you going to do? We move on”. “Nine points difference, so what? Do you know how many points difference there was to Sundowns by Kaizer Chiefs last year when we won the league? Did you ask that question? Did you ask (Ernst) Middendorp? because he was on the bench". Mosimane also pointed out how Sundowns’ recent dominance in local football has resulted in both Soweto giants, Chiefs and Pirates, being forced to team up to stop their success. “Life goes on. We move on and we have done well as Mamelodi Sundowns. It’s not easy to find a coalition there. I saw the whole of Soweto, black and white and gold and black, together. Then I know that Mamelodi Sundowns have become a problem in this country. We played against the country tonight and it’s okay. It sends a statement”. While he has joked that he is not worried about the nine-point gap, Mosimane has reassured Sundowns fans that the team will not give up the chase for a tenth league title this season. “Did you see this team giving up tonight?” he questioned. “No, we go for it. We are going to chase and chase. Even if we don’t win (the league), we got a second spot that we need to stay in the Champions League. Our vision is totally different and bigger than any other club. So, we have to make sure we close the spot of the Champions League because that’s what we are and how we improve the brand and that’s why we improve the team.”