At the close of play on day one, England were 192/4. JOHANNESBURG - Rainy and overcast conditions greeted the players at the Wanderers as South Africa and England prepared to lock horns once again in the fourth and final Test of the series. South Africa made three changes to their run-on 11 with Temba Bavuma, Beuran Hendricks and Dwaine Pretorius coming in for Zubayr Hamza, Kagiso Rabada and Keshav Maharaj. The wet conditions delayed the start of play by over three hours with only two sessions played on day 1. When play did get underway, Faf du Plessis lost the toss, for a seventh time in a row, with Joe Root electing to bat first. And as has happened so often in this series, it proved to be the right decision with Zak Crawley and Dom Sibley largely untroubled by the all-pace South African bowling attack. Crawley was particularly destructive on any loose deliveries and brought up his maiden Test 50, having hit 10 fours in the process. Despite the bowlers posing little threat in the opening session, Sibley was given two lifelines. First, an attempted glance down the leg side found the edge and carried through to wicketkeeper Quinton de Kock. He reviewed straight away and the decision was overturned. In his final Test match, Vernon Philander thought he had his man when Sibley was caught at gully by Temba Bavuma. However, the veteran paceman had overstepped the crease and a no ball was given. By the time the tea break came around, England were in a strong position on 100/0. South Africa would eventually see the back of Sibley shortly after the resumption of play. Hendricks, with a short-pitched ball that strangled Sibley down the leg side, gave De Kock a simple catch behind the stumps. It was a wicket on debut for the left-handed paceman. Having dismissed one half of the opening pair, South Africa soon removed Crawley for a well-played 66 with Philander getting his wicket off a back of a length that had Crawley in two minds and found the edge to give Rassie van der Dussen an easy catch at slip. England could have been three down, but Pieter Malan dropped a sharp chance at point. Malan dived to his right and got a hand on it but could not make it stick. It was a reprieve for Joe Denly. He, though, was put down again. A short ball from Nortje was smashed to Pretorius at mid-wicket, with the all-rounder unable to get his hands up fast enough. Denly's luck would run out in the next over as Dane Paterson found the outside edge and Van der Dussen taking his second catch of the match at slip. England were 150/3 heading into the final hour of play. Not to be outdone by his fellow pace bowlers, Anrich Nortje got in on the act. Ben Stokes was drawn into a drive that found the outside edge and gave another catch to Van der Dussen at first slip. Captain, Joe Root and Ollie Pope added another 35 runs before bad light stopped play with just 54.2 overs bowled. At the close of play on day one, England were 192/4. South Africa will take confidence from the fact that they were able to get four wickets in the final session but will have to strike early on day 2 if they are to disrupt England.