Middendorp’s comments after the attacker missed yet another game as Amakhosi claimed a 1-0 win over Golden Arrows on Saturday. JOHANNESBURG - Kaizer Chiefs coach Ernst Middendorp believes that Khama Billiat could be back to fitness and in the team in a fortnight. Middendorp’s comments after the attacker missed yet another game as Amakhosi claimed a 1-0 win over Golden Arrows on Saturday. Billiat hasn’t played since 22 December against Maritzburg United. Victory over Arrows was enough for the Glamour Boys to move ten points clear at the top of the Absa Premiership standings, and as Middendorp explains - they could be boosted by Billiat's return from a hamstring injury. “Khama Billiat has had a similar programme since the middle of December, like (Reeve) Frosler, who could only play a maximum of 45 minutes today (against Arrows) and he’s okay, there was no handicap,” the German coach explained. “Khama last played against Maritzburg on December 22 and we decided to totally take him out – and now this week we don’t have a game and we will take him into the training programme. It can be possible that we get him right in the next two weeks, but if we need a week more, we will take it. But in the next week or so he should be available to be fully integrated". Fellow Soweto giants, Orlando Pirates, have put pressure on their log leading rivals after beating AmaZulu on Saturday. Josef Zinnbauer's side unbeaten in five clashes, and now 12 points behind the leaders. The German has now discussed the possibility of his side being involved in the title race with eleven games left. “No‚” said the coach. “We’re looking at our next games and they’ll be difficult games. We have three points more and I’m happy about this‚ but we can’t at the moment say we’re fighting to win the title. "We have not so many points for this. When we have a chance I will say we’re fighting for the title. That’s what we want but at the moment it’s too early to speak about the title. We’re concentrating on the next game”.