Proteas bowler Lungi Ngidi produced a match-winning performance at the death to help the Proteas beat England by just one run in the first T20 international. Lungi Ngidi produced a match-winning performance at the death to help the Proteas defeat England by just one run in the first T20 international at Buffalo Park, East London. The Proteas defended their total of 177/8 in 20 overs, thanks to Ngidi’s final two overs in which he took three wickets for just 10 runs. The game looked lost in the 19th over when Beuran Hendricks conceded 16 runs in 6 balls. England were on 171/6 at the time. With 7 runs to defend in the final over, Ngidi’s first ball went for 2 runs taken by Tom Curran. Ngidi got the wicket of Curran the next ball, caught at deep midwicket by David Miller. Ngidi’s trusty off-cutter produced a priceless dot ball midway through the over with Moeen Ali on strike. Ali got an inside edge onto his pads for 2 runs the next ball, making it 3 runs needed from 2 balls. Ngidi then produced a gem of a delivery, an off-stump yorker to bowl Ali, leaving the Buffalo Park crowd in a frenzy. England needed 2 to force a Super Over, but three runs would mean victory. In the end, Adil Rashid failed to get enough contact on the ball and England only managed 1 run. Rashid attempted a second but there little hope of making his ground. England captain Eoin Morgan nearly got his team over the line with an impressive 70 off 38 balls. The two teams were evenly matched through the game. The Proteas got off to a quick start with captain Quinton de Kock and Temba Bavuma putting on 48 runs in the first 4 overs. Bavuma, who opened the batting, then continued the momentum with Rassie van der Dussen and together they added 63 runs for the second wicket. Bavuma fell for 43 runs a short while later. The middle order of Miller, Smuts, and Phehlukwayo contributed 54 runs to the cause, helping the Proteas compile 177 for 8 in their 20 overs. England’s Jason Roy gave Dale Steyn an unwelcome return to international cricket, scoring freely and with precision hitting. He put on 70 in 38 balls to take England to the brink of victory before Ngidi stood tall and turned the match in the Proteas’ favour.