With the series level at 1-1, Quinton de Kock won the toss and chose to bat first. South Africa also made 2 changes to the side with Dale Steyn and Heinrich Klaasen coming into the side. JOHANNESBURG  - After two thrilling T20 matches in East London and Durban, both of which went down to the final over, South Africa  and England  locked horns for the final time this summer in the third and final T20 in Centurion. With the series level at 1-1, Quinton de Kock won the toss and chose to bat first. South Africa also made 2 changes to the side, with Dale Steyn and Heinrich Klaasen coming into the side. South Africa were off to a blistering start as De Kock and Temba Bavuma picked up where they left off in Durban and brought up their 50 partnership after just 3.4 overs. The pair would add another 34 runs before Ben Stokes had De Kock caught on the boundary for 35. Bavuma joined his captain in the dugout the very next over after he was bowled by Adil Rashid for a well-played 49. Rassie van der Dussen and Heinrich Klaasen guided the hosts past the 100 mark at the halfway point. Van der Dussen, though, didn't last much longer at the crease after that. Stokes grabbed his second wicket after Van der Dussen was caught on the boundary for 11. Klassen didn't slow down his scoring rate, though, and brought up his 50 off 25 deliveries and took SA to 164/3 heading into the final 5 overs. Klaasen tried one big hit too many and was caught off the bowling of Curran for a brilliant knock off 66 from 33 deliveries. By the time the last over came around, South Africa were on 210/5 and well on course to post over 220. David Miller ensured that South Africa would reach that milestone, hitting the last ball for 4 as the Proteas posted 222/6. Lungi Ngidi struck early with the ball, removing Jason Roy for 7. The visitors were not put off by that early loss and brought up their 50 after 5 overs. Just two and a half overs later and Buttler brought up his 50 as he and Johnny Bairstow took their partnership past the 70-run mark. Jos Buttler was only able to add 7 more runs to his total before he mistimed a scoop shot off the bowling of Dwaine Pretorius to give Tabraiz Shamsi his second catch of the match. England were 106/2 after 9.3 overs. Bairstow was the second English batsman to bring up his half-century just after the halfway stage in England's chase. The visitors were above the required run rate and South Africa needed another wicket. Up stepped Andile Phehlukwayo and bowled the set batsman, Bairstow, for 64. England 140/3 and needing another 83 from 45 deliveries. Just five runs were added before the next wicket fell, with Malan caught behind off the bowling of Shamsi. Eoin Morgan and Ben Stokes then looked to get their side over the line. The experienced left-hander almost did just that as they put on 61 for the fifth wicket before Ngidi had Stokes caught in the deep for 22. England needed 17 from 11. Morgan led from the front and his knock of 57 not out was enough to see his side home with 5 deliveries to spare and secure a 5-wicket win as England clinched the series 2-1.