Here are some issues that WHO epidemiologists are probing to deepen understanding of the virus, believed to have jumped the species barrier at a seafood market in Wuhan in December, to help accelerate the development of drugs, diagnostics and vaccines. GENEVA - The World Health Organisation (WHO) is tracking the epidemic of the new coronavirus in China and how it is spread abroad, as its advance team of international experts travel there to help investigate the outbreak. Here are some issues that WHO epidemiologists are probing to deepen understanding of the virus, believed to have jumped the species barrier at a seafood market in Wuhan in December, to help accelerate the development of drugs, diagnostics and vaccines. “There’ve been some concerning instances of onward #2019nCoV spread from people with no travel history to China. The detection of a small number of cases may indicate more widespread transmission in other countries; in short, we may only be seeing the tip of the iceberg,” WHO director-general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said in a tweet on Sunday night. To what extent people who have mild disease, which according to Chinese data on 18,000 cases is some 82%, shed the virus and potentially expose others. Some 15% of cases are severe and 3% critical, according to its data shared with WHO. So-called ‘clusters’ of cases where there has been secondary or tertiary onward spread of the virus among people in countries including China, Germany and France. Tracing contacts exposed to the virus is key to stopping transmission chains. “The overall number of people associated with those clusters has been very, very limited,” Dr. Mike Ryan, WHO’s top emergencies expert, said on Saturday. “Those clusters also can teach us a lot about the nature of the dynamics of disease transmission.” “From the start when we knew about this new respiratory pathogen, and it was a coronavirus, we thought that there was going to be the possibility of an amplification event, or ‘super-spreading’ events,” said Dr. Maria van Kerkhove, a WHO epidemiologist. “We have only one instance of an outbreak in a hospital that we are aware of, in Wuhan, involving 15 health workers,” she said. “We have recently released a clinical case report form which we are encouraging hospitals and clinicians to use so that standardised data collection can be captured from patients who are hospitalised,” van Kerkhove said. This will provide a better picture of disease progression and what severe disease looks like, she said.