StatsSA's Education and Labour Market Outcomes in SA report revealed that more millennials than Generation Xers in the Indian/Asian population group attended university, while fewer millennials in the other population groups attended university institutions compared to Generation Xers. JOHANNESBURG - Black and coloured South African millennials born between 1980 and 1999 recorded the lowest rates of university institution attendance among the country's various race groups. This was according to Statistics South Africa's (StatsSA) _Education and Labour Market Outcomes in SA _report released on Tuesday morning. The report looked at the levels of educational attainment from 2002 to 2018 across three generations: Generations X (born between 1960 and  1979), Millennials (born between 1980 and 1999) and Born Frees (born after 1994). A DROP IN TERTIARY EDUCATION ATTENDANCE Among its findings, StatsSA revealed that more millennials than Generation Xers in the Indian/Asian population group attended university, while fewer millennials in the other population groups attended university institutions compared to Generation Xers. Technical and Vocational Education and Training (TVET) colleges were the most popular higher education institutions among black and coloured millennials, while universities were the top choice for whites and Indian/Asians. #StatsSA Of those that are attending educational institutions, attendance of tertiary institutionsdeclined for coloureds, whites and black Africans, whilst tertiary education attendanceimproved for Indians/Asians from 72,0% for Generation X adults to 95,7% for Millennials. LM pic.twitter.com/Aj4N8Z5EtW  MORE MILLENNIAL FEMALES ATTENDING HIGH SCHOOL AND TERTIARY While the gender gap among high school and tertiary attendees among Generation Xers remained, more female millenials attended high school and tertiary institutions. #StatsSA The gender gap in completion of secondary schooling increased from 2.4 percentage points among Generation X individuals to 3.6 percentage points among Millennials. A greater share of Millennial females achieved Tertiary qualifications. LM pic.twitter.com/CzEcKT8VOh  Despite higher levels of tertiary education attainment, unemployment for millenials with a tertiary qualification was higher than unemployment for Generation Xers with the same qualification. #StatsSA Unemployment for millenials with a tertiary qualification was higher than unemployment for Generation Xers with the same qualification. LM pic.twitter.com/HLm5Mw6IMJ  LOW ATTAINMENT OF TERTIARY EDUCATION AMONG POOR MILLENNIALS While almost 50% of millennials from the richest households obtained a tertiary education, only 4.2% from poor households obtained the same. #StatsSA Only 4.2% of millenials from poor households obtained a tertiary qualification. LM pic.twitter.com/1uw1tU4jRs  You can read the full report on the Stats SA website.