Motorists are being turned away from the M1 double-decker carriage where some vehicles are trapped due to flooding. JOHANNESBURG – As heavy rains continue in Gauteng, officers have blocked off a stretch the M1 double-decker freeway due to extreme flooding on Saturday morning. Johannesburg residents are waking up to major floods across various parts of the city, due to sustained downpours since Friday night. Officials say at three cars are stuck on the highway, one of them with the occupants trying to push the vehicle out of the water. Another car is said to have overturned. Johannesburg Metro Police Department spokesperson Wayne Minaar said, “A number of accidents have taken place on the M1 freeway, the N1, N3, M1-South, Malboro – where a vehicle has overturned – and Allandale there are also accidents, but there are no injuries. Minaar said motorists must take all precautions when driving in the rain. “We want to encourage motorists to drive with extra caution in the rain, and to increase following distance and keep their headlights on.” Authorities are keeping an eye on all low-lying areas and deployed personnel to assist any affected travellers. 💥Avoid driving if you can... JHB Roads are not safeSoweto, Krugersdorp, Muldersdrift, Witkoppen road Paulshof... Roodepoort AND the M1 pic.twitter.com/l20rqW0CaN  At the same time, Joburg Emergency Management Services (EMS) are responding to various flooding incidents across the City on Saturday morning, caused by sustained heavy downpours. Authorities have their hands full as they attend to stranded residents in area including Orlando, Kliptown and Alexandra. Images seen by Eyewitness News show some homes completely flooded, with residents stranded on rooftops as they assess the damage caused by the rains. EMS spokesperson Nana Radebe said, “There are number of areas that are affected by flooding, within the  City of Johannesburg. We are in Alexandra,  Diepsloot, parts of Soweto – which include Braamfischer and Dobsonville.” Soweto floods, at least the person from that car survived, and was helped by the EMS and passersbys. @jozifm @Powerfm987 @Newzroom405 @JoburgMPD @CityofJoburgEMS @Abramjee. pic.twitter.com/G7UScHZInF 