The Auckland based side broke the deadlock early in the match with the flyhalf Otere Black penalty in front of the home side poles, this is after Stormers penalised for a dangerous tackle. Blues took 3-0 lead after two minutes. CAPE TOWN - The Stormers have suffered their first defeat of the Super Rugby campaign following a 33-14 loss to the Blues at Newlands Stadium on Saturday. The Cape side came to the clash on a high after four victories so far in the campaign. The Auckland based side broke the deadlock early in the match with the flyhalf Otere Black penalty in front of the home side poles, this is after Stormers penalised for a dangerous tackle. Blues took 3-0 lead after two minutes. The New Zealand side wasn't done; they continued to put pressure on the home side defence, eventually, winger Joe Marchant dotted the side's first try of the match, taking the tally to 10-0 after six minutes. The Blues were a better team in the first 10 minutes of the match. In 12 minutes, Black extended the side lead with a penalty to make 13-0. Dalton Papalii scored the Blues second try of the match in 21 minutes, this was they dominated the Stormers back and defence, taking the score to 20-0. The Stormers its strength after 26 minutes, they put more pressure on Blues defence in the visitors five yeards. Eventually, John Dobson side opened the scoring through eighth man Juarno Augustus to make score 7-20. In 29 minutes, Blues winger received Mark Telea yellow card for tackling Sergeal Petersen in the air. The Stormers looked charged in the last 10 minutes - they took advantage of the Blues' 14 men. Just three minutes before the half time break winger Sergeal Petersen scored for the home side - taking the score to 14-20. The match went to half time break with the Blues leading the Stormers by 27-14 after the second try from Marchant. Match performance and temperament in the second half picked up where it left off in the first stanza. Both sides applied pressure at it each other's back with the score remained 14-27 to the Blues. In 54th minute, Black extended the Blues lead with three points taking the score to 30-14. Black was the star of the day with his kicking tactics. A deliberate knock-on by Stormers scrumhalf Herschel Jantjies resulted in a penalty which was slotted by Black, taking the score to 33-14 after 61 minutes. The Blues hold onto their 33-14 lead to defeat the Stormers at Newlands to suffer their first defeat of the season after four victories. The Stormers are bye next week before embarking on the Australasian tour.