A South African who recently returned from China was now under quarantine at a KwaZulu-Natal hospital. He told Eyewitness News how he was initially turned away from hospital after showing flu symptoms. JOHANNESBURG - South Africans who had recently travelled through China were calling on government and general practitioners to urgently step up screening processes for the coronavirus. A South African who recently returned from China was now under quarantine at a KwaZulu-Natal hospital. *How to track the coronavirus outbreak He told Eyewitness News how he was initially turned away from hospital after showing flu symptoms. WATCH: 'It's a ghost town': South Africans in Wuhan describe coronavirus lockdown  The 28-year-old, who teaches in China, arrived back in KZN for vacation three weeks ago and was concerned as he showed flu symptoms. But he said that doctors thought he was overreacting and gave him a Panado. "I went to the GP but he didn't have the kit to test for the virus. He said he was going to treat me for flu. He gave me a flu shot which made me collapse on the street. I went to the hospital and they've kept me here." The teacher was then placed under quarantine for three days at a Pietermaritzburg hospital before the test results came back negative. Meanwhile, another South Africa Stephanie Koch, who travelled with her husband to Hong Kong, said that he was still battling with flu-like symptoms. She said that she was unable to get him tested for the coronavirus and was being sent from pillar to post. "The GP seemed to be very casual about it, she then said we must just carry on and if it gets really bad, we can come to her and she'll test but they can't test at this stage." Both have called for general practitioners and hospital staff to be more informed about the coronavirus and make testing more accessible. There is no confirmed coronavirus case here in South Africa, however, more than 600 people have died in the outbreak, the vast majority of them in China. Meanwhile, the National Institute for Communicable Diseases said that, on average, it was testing 20 South Africans per day for the coronavirus. It said that it was still not necessary for South Africans to wear surgical masks on a routine basis. Several countries had reported a shortage in surgical masks as the world put precautionary measures in place to prevent the coronavirus from spreading beyond China's borders. The NICD's Cheryl Cohen said that there were other precautionary measures South Africans should take, like washing their hands regularly. "You might wear a mask because you're worried about catching an infection. For that, there's no evidence to say that that works. Sometimes, it is recommended because it's thought it won't be harmful. There's certainly not evidence to say that it is going to work and that it is going to protect you if you wear a surgical mask. At this point, we're not recommending that you go out and buy a surgical mask." Cohen confirmed, just a short while ago, that no one had tested positive for the virus. "Our laboratory at the National Institute for Communicable Diseases is testing people within South Africa whose conditions we are concerned about in relation to the coronavirus and to date, all the samples that have been tested have tested negative. We are remaining on high alert for prospective cases." WATCH: SA Chinese community faces racial stereotypes amid coronavirus outbreak 