The trio last saw international cricket action during the Test series against England which was won 3-1 by the visitors. JOHANNESBURG - Faf du Plessis, Kagiso Rabada and Anrich Nortje have on Monday been added to the Standard Bank Proteas’ 16-man squad that will take on Australia in the three-match KFC T20 International series from 21-26 February in Johannesburg, Port Elizabeth and Cape Town respectively. The trio last saw international cricket action during the Test series against England, which was won 3-1 by the visitors. They were rested for the subsequent limited-overs series and now return in the place of Reeza Hendricks, Beuran Hendricks and Sisanda Magala, while the selectors look to give the remainder of the squad that took on England a longer run. South Africa suffered a 2-1 T20 series loss to the tourists in Sunday’s deciding match in Centurion but independent selector, Linda Zondi, was pleased with the fight that the team exhibited in the first two fixtures and noting, in particular, the resurgence of the batting unit. “The T20 series may not have been won but it was really pleasing to see our batting unit play so well,” Zondi commented. “They showed a lot of aggression particularly upfront, in every match, which set a good foundation for the rest of the line-up to follow. The very exciting bursts of cricket that we were served up bode very well for the future, especially in the short term as we begin our hunt in earnest for the T20 World Cup squad. “As a selection panel, we are happy with the team that we have finalised for the Australia tour. We are confident that the return of Kagiso and Anrich will provide the boost that the bowling unit needs in order to return to its dangerous ways and that the experience of Faf will add an extra dimension to the batting unit’s already fledgeling prowess,” Zondi concluded. Standard Bank Proteas T20 squad vs Australia: Quinton de Kock (captain, wicketkeeper, Momentum Multiply Titans), Temba Bavuma (Imperial Lions), Faf du Plessis (Momentum Multiply Titans), Rassie van der Dussen (Imperial Lions), David Miller (Hollywoodbets Dolphins), Pite van Biljon (VKB Knights), Dwaine Pretorius (Imperial Lions), Andile Phehlukwayo (Hollywoodbets Dolphins), Jon-Jon Smuts (Warriors), Kagiso Rabada (Imperial Lions), Tabraiz Shamsi (Momentum Multiply Titans), Lungi Ngidi (Momentum Multiply Titans), Bjorn Fortuin (Imperial Lions), Anrich Nortje (Warriors), Dale Steyn (Momentum Multiply Titans), Heinrich Klaasen (Momentum Multiply Titans). Bavuma’s selection is dependent on the results of an MRI scan of his right hamstring that he will undergo during the course of the day.