England won the toss and elected to field first with the weather overcast but the rain thankfully staying away. JOHANNESBURG - South Africa and England locked horns in the final One Day International at the Wanderers in what was the ninth edition of Pink Day. England won the toss and elected to field first with the weather overcast but the rain thankfully staying away. South Africa were off to a slow start and only managed 36 runs inside the first powerplay. Tom Curran and debutant Saqib Mahmood doing an excellent job of keeping the opening pair quiet. Curran in particular was excellent in his first spell beating the edge of Quinton de Kock's bat on a number of occasions. However it was Reeza Hendricks who was first to be sent back change room. Mahmood with one that nipped back and clipped the top of the bails. Hendricks gone for just 11. Temba Bavuma joined the skipper at the crease and together the pair put on 66 For the 2nd. wicket. In his 100th ODI for England, it was Adil Rashid who got the breakthrough, trapping Bavuma in front for 29. Rassie van der Dussen lasted just 9 deliveries before he was cleaned bowled by Moeen Ali for 5. South Africa 94/3 after 22 overs. De Kock was proving to be the mainstay of South Africa's innings and brought up his 25th ODI 50 just before the half way mark in the Proteas' innings. Smuts and de Kock set about stabilizing the innings once again and put on 46 before Rashid claimed his second wicket of the match. De Kock trying to heave one over cover was clean bowled for 69. England continued to pile on the pressure and not allow South Africa to really get any kind of momentum. Smuts was the next batsman to go after some good work in the field from Banton and mix up between Smuts and Miller led to the former being run out for 31. South Africa 155/5 heading into the final 15 overs. The Proteas needed to up the anti if they were to post a defendable total. Andile Phehlukwayo tried to do just that but trapped LBW by Rashid trying to play a reverse sweep. Beuran Hendricks joined David Miller at the crease and only lasted 6 deliveries before he was run out by Rashid for 4. Miller went on the aggressive after that and ended the innings with 6 as he finished on 69* having struck 4 fours and 4 sixes. Rashid was the stand out bowler, taking 3/51 in his 10 overs. England's opening pair of Jason Roy and Jonny Bairstow got the run chase off to a blistering start and brought up their 50 partnership inside 6 overs. Bairstow was the aggressor and races to 43 from 23, hitting 6 fours and 3 sixes. His knock came to an end when he caught at square leg by Phehlukwayo off the bowling of Sipamla. England well ahead of the game though on 61/1 after 6.2 overs. The very next over an Roy joined his opening partner back in the dugout. He top edged a short and wide delivery off the bowling of Hendricks to be dismissed for 21. England skipper Eoin Morgan was the next to go after stopping on his shot allowing Hendricks to take a low catch off his own bowling. England losing 3 wickets in the space of 4 overs. Root was joined at the crease by Joe Denly and together the pair steadied the ship for their side and put on 76 for the 4th wicket and were looking to take the game even further away from South Africa. A breakthrough was needed and it took something special to deliver. Shamsi finding the inside of Root's bat and Bavuma taking a good low catch at leg slip. England 162/4 but still in firm control of the match. Denly and Banton continued to assert England's dominance and brought up a 3rd partnership of more than 50 for the English in their run chase. Having brought up his 50, Denly was dismissed off the bowling of Ngidi for 66. Banton followed him back to the hut in the next over after he was caught behind off the bowling of Hendricks for his 3rd of the match. By the time Banton was dismissed England needed just 25 to win. They lose more wickets though as Curran was caught off the bowling of Ngidi and England were 7 down. It would prove to be a nervy ending for all inside the Bullring as Ngidi took his 3rd to leave England 8 down with 5 runs to win. South Aftica taking 4 wickets while England scores just 20 in the same time. The visitors though managed to get those 5 runs with more than 5 overs to spare to win by 2 wickets and ensure the spoils in the series were shared at 1-1.