Leaders Kaizer Chiefs face Orlando Pirates this Saturday in a Soweto Derby, with Sundowns are in CAF Champions League action. JOHANNESBURG - With the Absa Premiership title race set to take centre stage this weekend, six-time league winner Daine Klate believes that Mamelodi Sundowns have the mental edge to clinch it. Leaders Kaizer Chiefs face Orlando Pirates this Saturday in a Soweto Derby, with Sundowns in CAF Champions League action; they face Al Ahly in the semi-finals on the same day. With 10 games left until the end of the season, Klate believes because of their history, the Brazilians are in the best position to clinch a record-extending tenth title. “Sundowns have the most experience,” he said. “They have the players capable of doing it. They’ve done it before. Chiefs to a certain extent have some players who have done it before. Definitely, I think the advantage [goes to] Sundowns because of their experience over the years, what they have gone through and what they have achieved. It’s like anything in life, if you keep doing it, you become so good at it.” With Chiefs, Sundowns, Pirates and Wits all with a chance to win the premiership, Klate has discussed what will be required of the players mentally to go all out for silverware. “That psychological part of when you go down when you don’t get the desired results, can you bounce back in the next match? Refocus yourself and claim the victories that are needed at that stage,” he advised. “The biggest part is when things are not going your way, can you stay positive and can you keep going?” Meanwhile, former Orlando Pirates player Benni McCarthy has shared his thoughts on what he expects from the last few games of the season. “Sundowns might still drop points, especially with the semi-finals of the champions league coming up. So, their focus will shift at some point and it will open the door again for SuperSport (United) and Wits. I look at it and I say, if I’m Pirates, if I’m Sundowns, I think I’m still in with a hell of a chance to win but it’s Chiefs league to lose.”