Lebo Manyama scored the only goal of the game to secure victory for his side. SOWETO - Kaizer Chiefs have extended their lead at the top of the table after claiming a 1-0 win over Orlando Pirates in the Absa Premiership Soweto Derby between the sides at FNB Stadium on Saturday afternoon. Lebo Manyama scored the only goal of the game to secure victory for his side. Chiefs started the game stronger, with long-range efforts at goal from Daniel Cardoso then another effort from Manyama went wide of Sandilands goal. As the half wore on it was the Buccaneers who looked most likely to score. And it looked like the. Would when a Luvuyo Memela cross landed near the feet of Ghabadinho Mhango in the 15th but Daniel Akpeyi was quick to react as he saved from close range. Mhango then had another chance to score from a free-kick a minute later but his effort was straight at goal. Pirates continued to test Chiefs defence from long distance but could not make the breakthrough. Manyama would have the effort that counts as on the half-hour mark his clever trickery bamboozled the Pirates defence and his strike flew past Sandilands to give Chiefs the 1-0 lead. He could have made it 2-0 a few minutes later but his effort flew over Sandilands bar. At the break, it was the log leaders who were in the lead. The start of the second half was dominated by long-range efforts from both sides. The likes of Memele and Ntsikelelo Nyauza has chances to score but Akpeyi proved to be a wall between the sticks. Chiefs brought on Khama Billiat just after the hour mark and he looked to make an immediate impact as he laid on a cross for Manyama to score from but the Nyuaza cut in to send it wide for a corner. The two sides continued to spar as the half went on, with Erick Matoho with a chance to score from a header but his effort went wide. Akpeyi then justified his call up into the starting line up as he made three great saves, including an effort from Thembinkosi Lorch. In the 81st minute, Vincent Pule had a chance to equalize but his free-kick failed to trouble Akpeyi. Akpeyi then pulled off another great save as he denied Lorch from close range. That would be the last significant goalmouth action as Chiefs held on to claim victory and move seven points clear of second-placed Mamelodi Sundowns. Pirates are now nine points behind their rivals, having suffered their first league defeat under Josef Zinnbauer.